As someone whose work is in the field of academic psychology, the heavy reliance on anecdotes to support his theories was frustrating, however, I can certainly respect his ability to find connections where others have not and to follow through with writing up his findings in a compelling way. Mark Twain once said there are three types of lies that lies, damned lies, and statistics this book was written from a point of view that environments control the destiny of everyone. A final note is that read this book with an open mind and understand that you can use to statistics the prove any hypothesis if you do not show all the data. I did feel like I learned a lot throughout the book and was able to take away a lot, which was the point of the assignment. But there were chapters of the book I found very hard to concentrate because it was not very interesting. I feel like the author presents an intriguing question, but he offers no control cases, except for the case of the character. As a scientist, and someone who looks at statistics daily, I am underwhelmed by assigning validity to a phenomenon without having a control group against which to compare the results and the author fails at this. And, I feel he is making conclusions based on personal emotional attachment to the history of his family. This book is less a complete concept and more a hypothesis with an incomplete examination of his thesis. While I buy into his argument, his approach of substantiating his position with a few select examples is rather weak. I could easily find counter examples for each one he presents. When he does cite evidence such as research on musicians supporting the ten thousand hours of practice, then I find his claims much more compelling. The book is an easy and enjoyable read, although towards the last third of the book, it seems like he ran out of things to say and digresses away from the main point of the book. Well written, entertaining, and provocative, two problems that obviously the author selected certain situations that fit his premise, there are tons of folks who succeed who do not come close to fitting his model. And, while the first half of the book moves briskly, the second half slows to a crawl. The entire book could have been written in one third the space. That said, it is still a very worthwhile read because of the fresh perspective. While the concept is intriguing and some interesting facts are revealed, the the author is long winded in some areas. For example, during the chapter on cultural differences corresponding to plane crashes, though interesting to a degree, I found myself repeatedly checking to see how many pages were left in the chapter. 