I did not find what I was looking for based on the title and notes, maybe I am looking for answers no one has. The subject matter of this author is limited to what it is like being in hospice, which I am familiar with already, having lost my husband to cancer recently. Maybe I will go back to it later, but I put it down without finishing it. While the author artfully presents progressing many of the ways that the transitional passage of aging that I would call assisted living, have evolved, he leaves out those parts of end stage living where someone is losing their life slowly as diminish take away this ability or that ability to the point where the body wears out rather than losing a battle to cancer or some other terminal disease. I wish he would have concentrated more on the conversation and the questions to ask rather than the struggles when there is not a conversation or we do not know the questions to ask. I would have appreciated more reference information to groups pioneering in this area instead of all the articles he read. I though it had some informative anecdotal stories about people and how they lived there final years. I also like his personal discussion of family and how they confronted mortality, the epilogue may be the best part of the book. But all in all, it was a fairly predictable and obvious story. Yes, the elderly prefer a warm assisted care environment to institutional care and yes, people would rather have privacy and home like surroundings to a share room in a hospital like facility. We all want to, die with our boots on and not some prolonged lonely bout in a nursing home. I would have liked the book to have more insight on the financial drivers in the poor state of health care for the elderly. This book is an academic piece about embracing hospice and other more humane, non extraordinary measures in the West, great. I fully agree, but it is not helpful to read while going through the dying process with a loved one. This book was recommended during my father death by several people so I picked it up. See earlier academic comment and it is a great book for stimulating an abstract or academic discussion on end of life issues. Disappointed, I had expected that the author would provide more information on alternatives to aging in place or in non residential environments. The vast majority of his book is about people who are terminally ill and die and I found it to be more of a clinical study than a useful reference book. 