I was stuck in a fifteen year relationship with a woman obsessed with herself. Now we are in divorce and I picked up this book to help myself understand more clearly what was going on. I thought I was alone in my family struggle with this person, and I could not believe so much information is synthesized about this category of people. Narcissism is a disease, spreading very quickly in modern society. To counter that, the book does a great job giving you suggestions what to do in order to escape from the deadly trap of a narcissist. Language is simple and understandable and I leaves you uplifted and empowered. I loved it and would recommend it to anyone researching this field, or being in a relationship with a narcissist. This book addresses the complexities of both narcissistic behaviors, and the behaviors of people who are targeted by them. The information is useful in pinpointing unhealthy beliefs and behaviors in our society, our work lives, and our personal relationships. While it is not a holy grail, I find the book very helpful, thought provoking, and well written. Infidelity, money lies, fake personality and could go on and on. Thank you to the author for keeping things like this in an easy to understand read and my mind has been awakened. I absolutely devoured this book, it was spot on and the advice was practical and extremely valuable. For a long time, I thought I was the crazy one. I am in the process of taking my power back, thank You. Excellent Book, this book absolutely changed my life. After being abused and humiliated by my psychotic former lover, I have been a complete mess. After reading, I was so motivated and I can say this book initiated my Self Love journey. If you are looking for understanding about your own behavior or why others have treated you or your loved ones with so much evil. This is a great book to enlighten your understanding and will teach you How to Kill a Narcissist. My favorite book of all Narc books I have purchased. Fantastic job at explaining the dynamics behind narcissism, what difficulties to expect and perspectives to take on to assist in healing. It goes beyond surface level and helps you understand not only the situation, but yourself and how to move forward. It is not always black and white with a hard stop. 