This is one of the most outstanding, memorable books I have encountered in a long life of manic reading. That is why I was flabbergasted when the man came out flat footed and admitted that the idea of traveling in the South terrified him. Starting in the Northwest, the author trusted his life to strangers without regard to race, creed, color, or teeth to tattoos ratio, but the prospect of crossing the Mason Dixon Line made him go weak in the knees. His reception in Kentucky was the epitome of Southern hospitality and friendliness, yet he high tailed it to the coast so fast we would not have been able to lynch him if we wanted to. After months of travel and hardships designed to expose and dispel stereotypes, he fell victim himself to the oldest American stereotype of all, the vicious Southern redneck. The author made all kinds of excuses and he was worn out. His girlfriend missed him and His feet hurt, nobody was fooled. This book was better than I anticipated, largely due to the nonjudgmental observations of the author of those he met. He seemed to find the likable qualities in almost everyone. It was also interesting to see how cathartic it appeared to be for strangers to tell another stranger about their past wounds as if they had been waiting for the time they could unburden themselves of their past hurts and have someone only listen and acknowledge their pain. To me, this was a brave exhibition of human vulnerability by the author. This book reminds us we all have carried, or are carrying, a heavy load regardless of how well some of us hide it. It also reminds us that we are so much more similar to one another than our outward appearances may suggest. The kindness of strangers is all around us. I was not surprised that those with the least to give, gave the most, that is the beauty of empathy. A few times, we cringed at some of the characters and close calls with trouble, but most of the time we were touched and inspired by the kindness shown, especially by many of the strangers who had lost a lot in their lives and each one of them affected the author for the better and many of them told him much about their lives. I especially enjoyed his depictions of the heartland from Montana through Tennessee, but while most of his experiences were positive, he dose not sugar coat them. The author notes that people have their flaws and quirks himself included but that they are still capable of kindness that deeply affected him. Just finished this book and found it very interesting. Two years ago, I met a woman from Europe biking across penniless, yet walking and hitchhiking lends itself to more perils. I like to be inspired in a realistic way and this book did that for me. If this guy can traverse across the country with no money, completely dependent on others to feed and shelter him, then surely I can take a few risks myself. What was even more fascinating then the accounts of how he cleverly managed to stay safe and keep moving, was the way strangers let him into their lives so readily and so casually. Apparently, one can count on the kindness of strangers. In the end, It was the Ordinaryness of events in this extraordinary journey that made this book compelling and is what encouraged me to read on as he traveled on. 