Great news, the circus of facts is in town. We all like to be fooled but with facts feels much better. The headline reads, come to experience the illusion of knowing the world through facts, come fast, and the numbers are changing. Our ignorance about the world is measured here with fact questions like that how many girls finish primary school in developing countries. Let us hope that the circus lovers have read Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. Humans are pretty bad answering such questions without triggering our slow thinking system. So the author is exploring the limitations of our carbon based computer to measure our ignorance, worse than random. The methodology is bad but the book gets better, reusing the own argument of this author about the world. Then the author goes about telling interesting discussions around world facts also sharing basic applied statistics that he renamed to fact. Things are indeed getting better in the world and maybe even teenagers around the world can already write computer programs to these fact based questions and keep us updated. Naive and narcissistic, first the authors ask you not to trust in average values alone. A few pages later they present only averages, without any ranges or confidence intervals, simply because it suited their preaching. Showing a diagram where the the axis values start from forty percent, instead of correct value of zero gives misleading interpretation. The authors did purposely those errors which they blamed others. The author presented himself as such great scientist that I needed to go and see his academic publishing records. That is one thing, and writing a whole book multiple pages long around thirteen charts, is another. The book has no depth, there is nothing here that will make you think or reflect about anything, that would not have happened anyway by browsing and playing with the website. The stories are superficial, the insights are so elementary, that it makes the book look like a sort of self help advice. Half of this book could be good news, but it depends upon the size of the sample. What if there is only two choices. I read the book because I wanted to believe it. I will keep the book because I want to refer back to it when I hear opposing claims. It is not an academic book because of the lack of references to be able to follow up on the claims. It always bothers me when the reference is a web page and the date of the page is the date the page was viewed, not written. Statistics about good news is hard to come by and that is why you should buy the book for your teenager. The main thesis of the book that many, uncommonly known things are improving, is of marginal use at best. One can pick almost any point in history and find a previous point where the condition was worse, as an analogy that the standard of living in Roman times was exponentially better than tribes of nomadic hunter or gatherers. 