The author brings us into the White House to watch each of the presidents who presided over Americas wars as they struggle with managing their wars. What we learned in history classes in high school really cleaned up these president handling of war. War is a messy thing at best, and acting as commander in chief during wars is almost beyond human abilities. The story of the war presidents we lived through is especially emotional to read. Do not expect this book to arouse your patriotism. This is a large book, which takes a long time to read, even when you do not read the many foot notes, but well worth the effort. I read Presidents of War for my church book group and the discussion is not for another ten days. I am not disappointed in the book although I would have liked to read more than a few paragraphs about the current war in Afghanistan, but the book sort of left me disappointed in the American people for tolerating the current situation, in which the United States has become just like the European great powers of the eighteenth century whose example the Founders strove to avoid. The one way in which the book could have been improved would have been with a greater focus on Eisenhower and Nixon, who ended wars they inherited even in the absence of clear victory, a skill sadly lacking in contemporary Presidents. To avoid turning this into a rant, I will cut this review short. This book was what I consider to be a hard read. It takes allot of concentration to fully digest the reading material. I would have preferred it have been written in an explanatory fashion as opposed to endless quotes. That said, it was a good read and those enjoy history will likely get allot out of it. I expected this book to cover things I had read in biographies of the presidents and of wars in our history, not so. This book gave insight into the personalities and concerns of the presidents dealing with our wars. There is occasional reference to historical events but the book tells the reader what it was like to be president during those times and tells us background of decisions made by presidents during wars, often not reported in the papers. It was an eye opener for me and well worth the time spent reading it. This is one of the best books I have ever read. The author does a great job of explaining how Presidential power has shifted through times of war and throughout the history of the United States. Be warned, however, the lengths to which some Presidents use, or misuse, their Executive power is frightening. This book was ten years in the making. 