As a sixty year old woman of strong mind and body but still struggling with getting out there and trying not to feel invisible in a room full of people, I found this book to be useless. I have watched some of TED talks of this author and found them inspirational, so I bought this book. It seems to be all about her, her views, her heroes. Many of us have had that one great friend or spouse and have lost them, leaving us in the wilderness. Many do not and never will have a loving, supportive significant other and great kids. I bought this book because the author was interviewed on Morning News and she is impressive but the book is not. The author writes over and over again about research but her research is investigating such nebulous terms as true belonging or integrity without presenting what researchers typically do is to define your terms objectively and measurably, undertake a scientific sample, specify your research procedures and instruments. Consequently, this book should not be taken as social science research findings. Some ideas seem thoughtful and reasonable but the findings are not the real research findings. I found much of the content in this book old and stale and carefully packaged to create a surface level sense of safety. This book implies the wilderness is a new phenomenon when in reality people of color have had to navigate all the things she describes for generations. As a sociologist she knows this, so the book reads like she took survival strategies from people of color and watered them down for her target audience of white, middle class women and men. The author introduces concepts like authenticity and courage from a very shallow perspective and provides tips that are often either confusing or insulting. I thought this book would be something else and I find myself in a particularly lonely place in my life, and thought this book would address me personally. Instead, this book is about not judging others and getting politically polarized. This book is not that I do not think those are important issues, because goodness knows they are , but that is just not what I thought I was going to be reading about. To be fair, I only read half of the book, but after glancing through the remaining three chapters and the book looked like more of the same. I really wanted to like this book and I have read all of past books of this author multiple times. Each book is like eating an elephant of wonderful data and introspection, filled with life giving challenges and hope. Each of my copies have hundreds of notes and highlights in them. I have even taught and entire men retreat on Vulnerability, and it was wonderful. This book though, I am not sure what mark she was trying to hit with it, but in my opinion it did not hit any mark. The rest of book is completely uncharacteristic of her depth and wisdom and feels really shallow and overly politicized. 