This is overall a really good book and it was a great introduction to Stoic philosophy for me, however, the tone is very focused on promoting modern busy culture instead of stepping back from it. I guess for pop culture, those examples are fitting. I would have preferred something more introspective in tone, but that just me. I am having a hard time getting into this book and it is written with so much enthusiasm and emotion, that it is an obstacle to wanting to continue on with reading it. The preface and introduction are written like a Tony Robbins motivational seminar, which I was not expecting. My plan to get through this book, take a break from it. Maybe when I attempt again to read, I will not be bothered by the overly emotional and exuberant preface and introduction. Sure, this book is full of advice that, if applied, would benefit you, always be persistent and focus on the process. The human mind is not capable of keeping all of this in mind and adhering to it. That is just not how humans work and holiday gives us instruction after instruction on how best to conduct our lives and achieve our goals. I guess we should walk around with a scroll of these instructions and constantly be reviewing it, and even then it is just far too much jumbled together to make it work. If you are looking for something to build resilience and mental toughness, go for The Mind Gym by Gary Mack and Discipline Equals Freedom by another author, much better. The audible title does not load properly. The whole time I listened to the book, it said I was at zero seconds, and it said that the whole book was zero seconds in length. No way to see how long the book actually is, or how far in I am. I did quite a bit of troubleshooting, but could not correct the issue. I did not base my rating upon this issue at all, I think the problem lies with Audible. And overall, the book espouses a kind of new thought positive psychology bent, which is fine as far as that goes. But this book tends to step into emotionally dismissive waters with some regularity. Your problems are all in your conceiving of the situation, you should simply be able to not react with negativity. The book is clearly pop of this author. The one who founded Stoicism, had some funny ideas about, say, a woman role. You will not find any of that funniness here, instead, the book reads like politically correct motivational speaking. More than that, the author, Ryan Holiday, has worked with folks who do positioning and manipulation as a business and they sell advice on positioning and manipulation. Check out his wikipedia page sometime, there are lavish mentions of his work with Robert Greene, not to mention his book which is on media manipulation. 