Great crossword puzzle book and this is my forth in the series, generally very clever puzzles, many with themes. Many of the clues have either multiple possible answers or double entendre that make you dig for the right one. The puzzles tend to shy away from answers that would require a crossword puzzle dictionary, a friend with a PhD degree in some esoteric field or Google. After all, if a puzzle requires using any of the three former help mates, what would be the point of doing the puzzle in the first place. Nope, these many times require innovative and sometimes out of the box thinking. Yes there are a few clinkers but the vast majority of the three hundred puzzles are enjoyable indeed. And if you do them in ink it adds that much more to the flavor, enjoy. This is by far one of the most odd and interesting books I have ever read. And of course is not that exactly the Monterrey that Steinbeck attempts to describe. Short, direct, and without unnecessary flair, the author writes in the style attributed to Hemming way but makes it somehow more perfect. The directness transports you and you simply are there. Portraying an odd collection of America down and out during one of the darkest times of American society, we see what it is truly like to live for today and accept that while it is what it is, it becomes what you make it. The quirky confident characters set the prototype in modern pop media and are just as memorable and lovable. This short yet powerful book is still as unsettling now as it was when I first read it many, many years ago. The characters are rough around the edges with a desperate longing for a place to call home. The story takes place in California where day laborers find their way from ranch to farm making money to survive. George and Lennie find their way to yet another job to escape the trouble that inadvertently finds Lennie. Despite their struggles, the two men maintain hope and optimism that their hard work will eventually resolve their difficult life. The language used in the book is indicative of the characters historically and socioeconomically. As a tale set in the Great Depression, this book highlights the relationship and journey of two migrant workers. Throughout the novella the reader gets an impending sense of doom and this is caused by the constant reminder of Lennie and George big dreams to one day own their own farm. I love this heart warming tear jerking book and I read it for a class assignment. We discussed each will defined characters and applied it to psychology. This is a short story that took me from curiosity to oh my goodness in two sentences and it has some twist and carries a solid plot to the end. The author had a way of grabbing my attention, also to make me look at my own emotions, the way I think, and how I react toward others. I highly recommend this book for a short story and to find a sense of hope. Another great read and George was a good person deep down but, he may have taken on more than he could handle when he agreed to watch out for Lenny. It could also be said that this decision of Georges gave him purpose in his own life to be responsible for this child like adult. 