Please, do yourself a favor and read some of the poor reviews before ordering. As a millennial investor, everything in this book was either outdated or painfully obvious. The whole point of the book is to show that wealthy people live among us, and we should live below our means and maybe this was new information, I guess. Here is the kicker that this book bis also dreadfully boring, any examples I give would sound like exaggerations, but it is true that this book is both shockingly shallow and mind blowing boring. I honestly can not figure out what angle the authors were going for, fun and light, dense and informative, but who knows. If you are a new investor, this will turn you off to it. Like I said, browse some of these negative reviews before purchasing and you will thank us later. This is the first book over the many I have read where the authors claim to provide an excellent ROI on the investment in the book. I would have to disagree, my ROI on several other books has greatly surpassed the ROI on this one. Starting with my elementary math textbooks, I do not think even authors whose books or textbooks were read by Mark Zuckerberg or Bill Gates or Warren Buffet made such a claim. The gist of the book is save, save and save, do not let the consumer culture around you dictate your spending habits, this makes sense, but not when belabored over book length, and not after 2011, the bubble and the burst. If that period in this book was not instructive, then this book can hardly be. While reading the book I was wondering if wealth and savings statistics from the old times is still relevant. Much more useful, this book is just disappointing to have bought this archaic edition and the seller should stop selling this version. This book is helpful in that regard and earns four stars and it loses one of those stars for the chronic Kindle problem with illustrations. The charts appear tiny and illegible and some are even printed vertical which forces you to tilt the laptop. I did find a work around for their size that I will pass along. On a page with a tiny chart press the Table of Contents and when the page appears you may find it larger. No guarantees but it works for me and this book is still annoying however. This book is a good and one that I would recommend for everybody. However I would like to still recommend this book as a reminder of what it means and takes to be a millionaire. It is a tough book to read and gets more difficult towards the end. Also the examples and stats are American and in a lot of cases do not makes sense in the context of a different county. 