Had the great honor to have had a semester of US History with this author, my freshman year of college. I was the only African American student in the class, and I was affected greatly from hearing him speak daily on the intricacies of what was and what was not in the seminal history of the country that which is the congealed narrative of a master race or that of those affected by the impudence of power. A wonderful book that will change how you see the world, much like Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee did for those of us who grew up watching Hollywood westerns. It presents history of farmers, slaves and factory workers in a way that is different, more human, and more believable than what we were taught by the public schools. One of my top five books, and I have read many hundreds. This book is so important for the national discussion, and this book is a great contribution to the actual history of the United States. I just received this book as a resource and I could not put it down. I took a break to see if the author is alive and how I might meet him. Unfortunately, all that we have are his books, plays, interviews and reflections. Being a playwright has certainly influenced his historical writings and style in this book. History is a story and he tells that story with great detail and courage. In addition, his truth is the truth of all of America since his perspective is from the viewpoint of the Indians when Columbus landed, the factory workers, women, African Americans, this is a must read. This is book should be essential reading for all high school and college students. It is essential to know the history of all the people that have been harmed by western imperial capitalism. I must admit this book made me so sad and angry about what the pursuit of profit led our European ancestors to do. I teared up reading some of the horrible atrocities that were carried out by imperialists. I have included some informative picture of the book as well. Feel free to take a look at those if you like, overall, the book is excellent and I highly recommend it to everyone. This book should be read by everyone and I congratulate any educator who uses this tome. From the beginning of European occupancy of this continent to relatively recently it explains how our culture and government have imposed on people. It reveals the abuse of power and wealth and the manipulation of the general public by the few so the abuse can continue. We are so used to hearing history told from the side of the victor, but what was it like for captors or losers. I love the discussion on progress and the explanation for racism. As a psychologist, it resonated with the idea of realistic group conflict theory and inter group contact theory. 