The book enlightened me on several things about the origins of of our worlds societies. As a novice, the authors conclusions seem logical, well supported and convincing. My sole critic of the book stems from the authors tendency to repeat his conclusions over and over. The net result is some sort of circular logic to tie the chapters together. The book could have been much more effective and readable without the repetition. There are sections in this book which are thought provoking and interesting to listen to. There are other sections in this book which are far far too drawn out. The author has extensive experience in New Guinea and Indonesia, and talks at great length about them, focusing more on these islands than any continents in the world. If only Jared Diamond would condense his fascinating information, without needlessly listing out every single detail for hours on end on things like Asiatic languages and what types of crops can be found where, this book would be outstanding. As is, it is very difficult to pay attention and that is because some areas are so terrible boring, you would not want to. However, if you can make it through the long unnecessary drawn out parts, the interesting parts are well worth it and eye opening. If anyone knows why some nations advanced ahead others, it is Jared Diamond. It is well thought out and the documentation is excellent. The writing style makes it an easy book to read. The major problem I have with the book is it should have been half as long. Page after page is devoted to sideline discussions and irrelevant facts that are not important to the main theory being presented. I enjoyed the book but the thesis could have been explained and documented in less than one hundred pages. Still, the thesis is sound and should have an important impact on historical analysis. Now this is a good book and it might appeal to some yet some might hate it and it is all a matter of opinion. I had to read this book for my World History class and I skimmed through most of it, just trying to find the answers to my questionnaire I had to complete. The book is very lengthy and can get boring. Some chapters, like the one about Pizarro and Atahualpa, were very interesting. If you want to learn about why human development proceeded at such different rates on different continents then read the book, that topic may very well peak your interest. The theories provided in the book make sense and I have to say I agree with most of them. This a an excellent book and clarifies much of the reason why Europe and the West prevailed in history, rather than say Africa or America. Basically Diamond argues eloquently that geography and luck of the draw food resources and animals explain much of the winners success in history. The request for further study by historians using more scientific means is welcomed. 