I kind of knew what was happening in my states penitentiaries because I worked my way through college as a state correctional officer, but reading the cold hard facts is especially numbing because I know I contributed in building this New Jim Crow System. After reading this book I feel that I have to take part in dismantling this awful for profit warehousing of my Brothers and Sisters. This book was delivered quickly and was well packaged and I would gladly do business with this Seller again in the future. I pray that enough well meaning people of all races in the USA read this well thought out book and are as deeply moved by it as I am. This was not an easy read for me. But I needed a wake up call especially given the current racial climate of the country. This book opened my eyes since there are many powerful statements in this book but here are a few that stuck with me. Arguably the most important parallel between mass incarceration and Jim Crow is that both have served to define the meaning and significance of race in America. Indeed, a primary function of any racial caste system is to define the meaning of race in its time. Slavery defined what it meant to be black, and Jim Crow defined what it meant to be black. Today mass incarceration defines the meaning of blackness in America, black people, especially black men, are criminals, that is what it means to be black. The United States imprisons a larger percentage of its black population than South Africa did at the height of apartheid. In Washington, our nation capitol, it is estimated that three out of four young black men can expect to serve time in prison and nearly all those in the poorest neighborhoods. I highly recommend this book to anyone who really want to understand about mass incarceration and how it effects everyone in America. It is excellent she is a great writer and it is tough for me as I am so impacted my heart breaks every page. It is harsh and unflinching and devastating but truly this needed to be told. It makes you so angry you will never look at the American Judicial system the same again. I hope it is a textbook and required reading in high schools if not college and I think it may be. While I did find the author guilty at times of not assigning blame appropriately for some of the crimes that landed these men in jail regardless of their race, that said one must live in a box not to have at least a basic understanding that minorities are target much more by law enforcement than privileged white people because the color of our white skin does not illicit negative thought about our behaviors like that of brown skinned people. The facts listed in this book are reminiscent of Jim Crow days and it is hard to dispute any facts she lists and backs up with proof. America has to figure out how to root out racism and allow us all to live together equally and peacefully in my opinion, great read for me. Without a doubt, this is one of the most exhaustively researched books I have ever read. I cannot recommend this book highly enough, it should be required reading for all voters. 