This is a book that unites what has been foolishly separated and biological science and indigenous plant knowledge. Our relationship to the earth and our treatment of it and the modern world and the traditional, words and actions, giving and receiving. The author is a scientist, a professor of biology, and also a member of one of North America First Nations. She writes out of love, and pain, and deep knowledge. This book changed and enriched the way I look at the natural world. We have to come to our senses, heal our dialogue with our planet, and the great good sense of this book can help. Few books can make me cry and laugh, this one accomplished that and much much more. Please buy this book and gift to your friends. but more so apply the principles of what you learned and start your own farm and get involved in protecting our land, you can do it and start local and see how far you can get. How do you think the little environmental protection we have was put into place, it was through people like you working with your local government proposing, education not all of it is accomplished through laws and votes. Excellent writer, wonderful women, bless this work and may conservation win. This tale of us, plants, animals, humans, and earth is so beautifully woven, poetically written, and emotionally powerful that it took my breath away. I savored the pages rather than swallowing chapters whole, as I am will not, because I needed to allow each message to soak into my bones. The author dose not teach us as much as she breaks our hearts open so we can remember what we have known all along. I read the Kindle version and then bought the paperback so I could share it. My hope is that a visionary film maker will discover the book and translate it onto the big screen. This message is too important not to be broadcast. I love the poetic prose and the connection to the woods and landscapes. The author explores many places in her professional and community connections but comes full circle back to New York. She took me home to Ohio in many ways, roaming woods, learning plants from my mother, watching the seasonal changes with cattails, harvesting wild berries and nuts, appreciating the multiple generations of family gardens and orchards, and pondering again the tragedy of the Cuyahoga Valley National Park Superfund, just over a mile from my childhood home. Some chapters are like hearing the voice of a beloved aunt read favorite family stories and others are packed with botany and scientific research. Tobacco was given by the North American people and it is rich in nitrogen and gives back to the earth. For myself, this is has been a great learning experience. It is like putting pieces back together after a big storm or disaster, I know a little about that and this author knows more. I was drawn in by the idea of science meeting tradition. 