I enjoyed this book much more and it is a practical guide to implementing the concepts outlined in the first book. The author walks through different areas of the home room by room, discussing how to pare down and organize each one. There is no constant repetition in this author like in the first book, but there are still plenty of relevant anecdotes to illustrate her points. I also found the guidance to be a little more mainstream, for example, clear off your kitchen counters when you are done cooking, empty out your purse every night and store the contents all over the house, and it covers a much larger area of the house. In the first book, it felt like the author was talking about living spaces that consisted of one room, whereas in Spark Joy, she covers an entire house that includes a kitchen, bathrooms. The author also discusses how to tidy spaces that include other occupants, like a spouse and children. One of the things I really like about this book is that she covers how to think about items that do not spark joy but are necessary in most households like a spatula or a flashlight. I started reading this book as a reference book and I would read about how to fold shirts and go to my shirt drawer to fold and organize. I would read a little and work a little bit and it has taken me awhile, and there is still lots to do and the methods of this author work. The author also explains how to decide what to keep and what to discard and that is often a difficult process. I shall keep this book on my reference shelf and I shall return to it over and over. Especially helpful are the last chapters about why we buy, collect and save items and the author writes about our relationships with the things we own. Before reading Marie Kondo books I never thought of my clothes, records and books as relationships. More important the author cautions us not to try and change family members. Many of us our happy being disorganized and some like me are disorganized in some areas and better organized in others. This book is amazing and The first book is amazing. This book has a lot of information that her first did not, extra information. The first was the basics, some information was obvious but never put into practice and some was rewriting our misconceptions about how to clean. In this book, she also addresses something she had previously said that she thinks now does not apply to everyone, and that is nice to know, especially if you are one of those people. She shows examples of how to store and talks about folding methods that she either did not mention or were not completely clear to me in the first book. It really seals the Konmari deal I think and the second book helped me get to the click point. I was happy with how clean our house was after the first book, but was not necessarily there yet. Wonderful sequel to her first book and ignore the negative reviewers, who think this is the same material, but it is not. This book answers the questions raised by her first one, and goes into much more detail about each category. The appreciation of this author for the little things in life and acknowledgment of our attachment to our possessions is refreshing. The author really knows how to celebrate and bless the importance of home. Just reading her book brightens my day and highly recommended. When the whole thing came crashing down, rehung, and crashed again, I knew I was a hopeless mess. 