A stimulating read and readers should not look to this book as a prognostication of what is next, instead, as the author tries to make clear, it is a litany of possibilities for the future of humanity. Many of these futures are possible, none is guaranteed. The author is a historian who liberally dabbles in many areas of expertise, including some where he is less knowledgeable such as artificial intelligence and gene therapy. He dose not hesitate to make sweeping conclusions. Yet that is also his strength, his ability to synthesize so much from so many fields, even if he likely dose not get it all right or is shallower in some of the futuristic sciences. It is undeniable that our world, our economy, science, and technology are all changing very, very fast with implications we can only begin to grasp. I loved it because it got me thinking in new ways about who we are as a species and where we might be going. I have yet to read Sapiens, but look forward to it. I believe we will start paying the check now and pretty soon mostly think of this as what the future will be now, as I think the ship is too big to turn at this point, but, if you want to know what it is going to look like when it all hits the fan, maybe in your spare time you can pick up this book. I am loving it, but if you want to continue thinking of humans as the greatest gift to the world, do not read this book. Sorry, I feel like a rat in a bottle of water. While former book of this author is a true masterpiece, but this book is too speculative. Also just like in his former book, it is not hard to tell what is an opinion and what is knowledge. Just like the former book, the author also makes a lot of provocative opinions. The main problem with this book, is that while in a brief history of humankind each opinion is not heavily based on the former ones. When you build such a structure of speculations upon speculations, even if all of them are reasonable by themselves, it suffice that one of the to be incorrect for the whole structure to collapse. This is a book that reads as if written from a megaphone, but the ideas are extremely important. I agree with the author that once again this book is at crossroads. My recommendation is that do not pass this book and read it. This is an amazing book and a very thought provoking book by the author. Very dense with many things to think about, in some ways a sequel to Sapiens, but more of a look starting recently and into the future. Humanism then gets analyzed and subdivided into various types of humanism. Also, how we are becoming more and more involved in putting huge amounts of data into computers and how this could affect the future. Another brilliant book from this author, if you liked Sapiens, you will probably like this book as well. The result is a great book which provides an amazing reading experience to the reader. The subject of the book is very interesting, the possible futures for humankind. Nevertheless, this dose not compromise the message the author is sending to humanity, great book worth every second reading it. Author presents multiple scenarios of directions humans will take. There is no place in the future for regular people. This book predicts the future of humanity, yet most of the book is about the past. The first part of the book talked about the future, and then the book turned to the past. 