The author is a psychologist with extensive study and experience in his field. Although many adults, arrogant parents in particular, think they know what is best for their children under all circumstances, the author shows that by looking at parenting from many angles. It is possible to provide children with better environments, happier lives and more upstanding and productive lives as adults. As the old meme goes, when children see adults show kindness to animals and the less fortunate, they internalize these lessons and apply them in their own lives. Brutal and violent parenting, on the other hand, can lead to bitter adults that see everyone else as their enemies. I can not think of any kind of person I would not recommend this book for. If you are a parent or work with children professionally, this is a mandatory read. If you reading this and I highly recommend this book for you as well, and I am extremely conservative about my reading material. It was a bit confusing but not unmanageable, on the upside this section was brief. Secondly, I felt not that it was short, rather I could have read an additional two hundred pages without losing the slightest interest on the topics discussed. This is an amazing book and I read it as a part of a class for my Master Degree. The cases are extremely interesting and at least one was a famous case in American History. The Author gives fantastic insight into how to deliver therapy in cases that appear to be beyond the abilities of the average therapist. I bought this book and found myself wanting to read it rather than forcing myself for the assignment. The way the author tells the cases and describes what he learned from each one had me waiting eagerly for the next case. This was am emotionally difficult read but well worth it. My daughter has an adopted son who has had some emotional problems. It is fascinating reading for anyone who is interested in the effects of trauma on children or in brain development in general. The author is quite revealing and bold in his noble work. Not only in terms of the graphic details of his case studies, but of himself as well. Reading these chapters, one feels as if he or she is accompanying this unconventional doctor on his journeys, his rounds, and his lessons learned. This is an academic work for sure and one that every professional who espouses compassion for others should read, no less than twice. This reader did for sure and how he would like to have been there at every emotional step. If for no other reason, one should buy the book for chapter ten alone, however, warning to the casual reader. The stories will move you and the author will inform you and set the record straight, absolutely, but you will be forever moved from any complacency that might have taken hold of your soul. It also does an excellent job of interspersing true, disturbing stories of child neglect and abuse with hope and practical tips for helping those we encounter in our lives who may have experienced these horrible things. Really, the lessons are easily transferable to all work with children and the book is also broken into manageable chapters. As a professor of counseling, I consider this a must read book and recommend it to students regularly. 