If you are like my husband, and unable to read or talk about death, then this book will not be enjoyable for you. But if you are like me, and you have already faced your own mortality, the mentions of death, mortality and illness will not bother you. That is not really what the book is about, it is about living life fully, but to understand why he is giving the lecture, you have to know the circumstances of his life. The author had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, one of the scariest cancers with the highest mortality rates and the author was given months to live. According to his blog, he seems to have lived two years after diagnosis, thanks in part to a radical surgery shortly after diagnosis. It is something of a memoir, but the author tries to squeeze in as many life lessons as possible throughout. The most tangible, practical advice is contained in his time management section. I have had this book on my IPad for many months and I am afraid it would be preachy but that did not turn me off. The author is just a guy very full of himself and it seems so deservedly. The best part was the amusing photos of the author sprinkled here and there, all of which reinforced a point he had made because of the way the book is organized. The best impact of the book is to realize that it is the people we impact that matter most after life is all said and done. Since the author is writing about childhood dreams that came true, I could not see myself applying very much from he said to my life. Nevertheless, what a wonderfully cathartic experience to take life of someone and be able to chronicle it to preserve it for family and future generations. This is not a book, taking the last lecture of this author and stretching it out into a book just did not work. But other than the lecture itself, you can see it on YouTube and elsewhere, the book is scattered and written by another and not very well. This book relies too much on the circumstances of the impending death of the author and therefore plays heavy on emotion, which is another pet peeve of mine. A better bet without all of that is mortality, now that one will really make you stop and think. This book struck me as both true and regretful and this author certainly is quick to credit his parents for their love and providing opportunities for growth. The childlike take on his own life is shown in his euphoric descriptions of doing sophisticated computer work for Disneyland and that may be the career goal of the author and his colleagues. So far, to me, the book is just an autobiography of the authors accomplishments, with a lot of namedropping of people from the Technology Industry. Right now I am stuck about two third the way through, and the book will now rotate to the bottom of my night table pile. Most of us, at some juncture of our lives, have heard the credo, you are not ready to live until you are ready to die. Unfortunately for nearly all of us, we do not heed these words until we hear the footsteps of the grim reaper outside of our bedroom door. 