I have been utilizing this book for my college speech course for the last two years. The students sit in a circle and discuss two or three chapters depending on the length. Since I have thirty students and there are thirty chapters, each student is assigned a chapter and are the experts on the chapter and they teach what they learned. Also, the student prepares two or three discussion questions for students to generate discussion. It is an effective way to teach and I empower my students to teach each other and every day amazing things happen in the classroom. It is an enjoyable experience to walk into a classroom and have students excited to discuss the readings and participate in the class discussion readily. The book makes my teaching easy and the examples in the book allows us to have discussions on deeper topics. My students tell me that it is one of the only books they have actually read cover to cover. In fact, some students begin reading it again after we finish to get a deeper understanding of the material. As a college professor, I can tell you this never happens in other courses with textbooks. I am an Language and Composition teacher, and my students read Thank You For Arguing throughout our study of rhetoric and argumentation. The author has crafted a text that makes otherwise complex topics accessible and very engaging for all of my students. The structure of the text is well organized and I love how he includes marginal notes for students to consider and practice on their own. At the back of the book, there is also a great section of practice and a glossary of all key concepts and terms. This book really has been the anchor to our study and a fantastic resource for my classes and I highly recommend this book. All of my students learn the basics of rhetoric and rhetorical analysis from this book. Most importantly, students enjoy reading this book and because the difficult and sometimes obscure concepts are explained in an engaging and humorous way, my students remember what they have read months after the assignments and assessments are done. This is one of the few books that I assign year after year. My students find this book accessible, entertaining, and a good introduction to argument writing. In addition, many of them find The Tools section at the end of each chapter to be an excellent review of the chapter contents. As an AP English Language and Composition teacher, this text is invaluable to helping my students with developing their argumentative writing. This text is informative, well organized, and helps my students by making difficult concepts much more approachable. Each edition just keeps getting better and better with relevant, relatable, and engaging for students. There is a fuzzy line between arguing and manipulation and that line is sometimes crossed here. Have you ever noticed someone talking to you and clearly but subtly trying to manipulate you. 