I am so grateful I took this leap of faith and my boyfriend and I are trying it as we are dating with intention of marriage. I absolutely love the change and I am seeing within myself which ultimately is changing the way he reacts to me. I went into this book thinking he was the one who needed it more but I was corrected on the first day. This book is teaching me to be kind and serve him without expecting anything back. The author has told me that he sees my efforts and it makes him want to be a better man, I will not lie, some days are easier than others but this book has helped guide us to let go and let God. We have both slowed down on magnifying what the other person is not and are appreciating everything the other person has to offer. We are picking our battles and processing truth verses feelings. Despite small bickering, we have not argued since we started this book because we are learning and finally both willing. The hand of God has never been stronger on our relationship and I do not think we have ever been happier. This is just an absolutely amazing book and I bought it the first time in hardcover three years ago. This book sat on my shelf because God was not ready for me nor was I willing to really invest. I am not a perfect husband, but I am learning and progressing at a fast pace, only because I wanted to, I wanted to change, I wanted to be a better man. This book helps people to remember what is truly important in life, and in my case helped save my marriage. I highly recommend this book, and have bought it for family and friends who are also dealing with difficulties in their relationships. I saw the movie Fireproof so I felt very compelled to buy the book that accompanied it. This book is most effective when you are putting your all into it, reading every single day, doing every task, and logging the results in the book. This is our second time of doing the this book. My husband and I have been married nearly forty two years, but we have found that this book and completing the dares have opened channels of conversation and helped us realize that we have settled into a pattern of status that does not promote growth and certainly has hindered intimacy. If you find it easy, then I doubt whether you are totally into it. You do not have to be a Christian in order for these tasks to work for you. This book may feel like at times it is trying to convert a non believer into a Christian but as long as you can follow through with what you are reading by the end you can go on believing whatever you like. I love how this book clearly challenges you to find new ways to spark fire in your marriage. This book really brings it back home to Christ and the transparency that we must have before Him, as followers of the way. This book in my opinion should be a book for couples who have just gotten married as it should be the book that teaches newly married couples how to be married. The book made me the kind of person I should have been and made my marriage much more stronger. Contrary to other reviewers, I did not find this a rip off from Fireproof. I assure you, this is not my usual loose cannon persona, this is Christian based, get over it, note to all that this book is Christianity based. If that is a push button issue for you, do not read it, then get pissy over it. 