This book is a very sad and funny depiction of a conundrum that people face. Some people have no idea who they are and do not know what to do with themselves. They enjoy freedom, but do not know how to interact with others in a meaningful way. Others have a very strong identity that frames their response to the human condition and gives them a medium by which they can connect with others. And while this is a blessing, this identity comes with historical baggage that can at times, prove lethal or at least a threat to their ability to flourish. The book is extremely well written and this talented author has tackled two subplots with skill and humor. The women in this book assume a more peripheral role in the lives of the characters but they are still essential to the story even though two of them are no longer present by the time the book unfolds. I did find the book easy to read and rather fast moving and I also found the discussions quite interesting but I would not call it a prize winner. For those interested in the depth of connections between people, it is a humorous and serious treatment of the subject. It is only toward the end of the book when the true power of the bond that links the main characters is finally and fully developed. The author cleverly interweaves the main arguments with the protagonist quixotic search for happiness, as an end, beginning or ongoing situation. I particularly liked the language that Howard Jacobson used in the book. I found his sense of humor to be incredible. However, it does help if you are Jewish with some background. This enhances your ability to appreciate how over the top some of his things were, especially as regards the area of circumcision. The main character is juxtaposed with two Jewish chaps that he attempts to understand as Finklers or in relationship to their particular Jewishness or lack of it. The author presents all sides of these male figures and their sexual appetites. The further you get into the novel, the more it grows on you. Just remember to think in terms of tongue and cheek as you attempt to master the craziness that transpires in the lives of the characters. The can be simply described as trying to define what a Jewish identity means. Describing the story line and the cast of characters is more of a challenge. The writing is very good throughout and sometimes it is a laugh out loud experience. However, not all of the characters ring true and seem a little contrived as if they were brought in to make a point and then depart. My Jewish book club enjoyed our discussion of the book but were less than awed by it. 