My son told me about this book, said he had been reading but put it down due to lack of interest. Then heard it won a Pulitzer Prize so picked it up again, guessing he is still struggling to get through. Historical fiction is my favorite genre, this was historical fantasy. I was not impressed, the first turn off was the depiction of an fantastical underground railroad. The actual underground railroad was degraded by this unnecessary diversion. Many other turn offs, mostly regarding distortions of history, but overarching was the stereotypical depiction of blacks as good and whites as horrific, good whites thrown in the mix seemed insincere and weak. In this time of acute race wars a more nuanced view of history is what is most needed. I kept reading because I thought I would find something new, but it was an old tale told countless times. I truly have no idea why this was a Pulitzer Prize winning book, it was fine. But frankly, there have been far more interesting, epic, dramatic, deeply engaging books in this genre over the years. Thoroughly disappointing, and I wanted to love it. Maybe I missed some fancy literary device buried in its pages, but as an average run of the mill reader, I just did not get it at all. Call me old fashioned, but I like to see things like plot, literate sentence structure, character development, accuracy in references to actual events or time lines. None of which are present in this book, I finally searched the author, with whose work I was unfamiliar, and learned he is a cartoonist. This volume does not join the existing pantheon of good books, fiction and nonfiction, about the Underground Railroad, in my view. Interesting enough to keep on reading, but the characters were not developed with as much depth as I would have liked, and the actual railroad idea just seemed unnecessary and odd. So, given all the positive press about this book, I was disappointed. The Underground Railroad is not a metaphor, but an actual railroad that transports runaway slaves to freedom. I would have appreciated a follow up from the author explaining what in his book is real and what is fictionalized. The book paints a horrifying picture of the brutality of slavery and its devastating impact on generations of families. Personally, I found the second half of the book less fluid and somewhat disjointed than the first. If you are looking for a completely accurate work of historical fiction on the topic of the Underground Railroad this is not it. I picked this book for book club and by the looks on the faces around the table I wish I had not. I found it an uninspired, one dimensional slog through unnecessary details of cruelty. Instead, they were abruptly served as fodder for the next round of cartoonist brutality. 