I have not read science in many years, it was my passion as a teen, but I am long past that period of my life now, so I was pleasantly surprised by the writing and intellectual quality of The Forever War. Shifts in social and sexual mores that occur during the protagonist three combat missions are jarring for him, yet he manages to hold to his personal principles and beliefs. This novel is the kind of thoughtful science fiction that I used to love, and I am delighted to know that such books are still being written, bring on more. Maybe its tremendous impact on the science fiction genre is working against it when read today. For all the criticism I have, it is absolutely a required read for any lover of science fiction. It is one of the corner stones that the modern genre is built on and an enjoyable read. The author served as an army engineer in Vietnam and based the story on the letters he wrote home to his wife. This is probably what gives the book, though abounding in page turning battles, its remarkably human touch. Forever War, written in the terse prose, is as masculine as it is tender and heartbreaking. It shows not only a gritty experience of war of a solider but also his inability to escape it upon returning home. This one deserves to be read by every self respecting science fiction fan, even ones that are not into military fiction. William Mandella has been drafted into a war against an alien race. This is truly a unique novel. I have never read anything like it, so if you are looking for something completely different I highly recommend picking this up. The isolation, despair and fear fully come through in the writing, making the reader care instantly what happens to Mandella. The only slight issue I had with the book was the choppiness of the narrative. War in space with all the time dilation to worry about and what it is like to come home during a war that seems to last forever. The individual that the story is focused on starts out as a drafted private, even though he is a College educated individual. It seems that for the purposes of fighting a ground war in an alien environment, education is considered a plus not a minus in the infantry. The ending is almost classic. I would heard of the book but it never read it before hand I was surprised that some of the transitions that took place during the time lines. It should not be a surprise that this book is symbolically about the Vietnam War even though it takes place in the future. I hope to read more works of this author as soon as I get through some of the others ahead of his in my library. The title is appropriate since the book covers several hundred years although it does not cover them in a drawn out manner. The Forever War is a good book but shows its age a little. One can tell the Vietnam War, population growth and the sexual revolution of the sixties were fresh on the mind of the author. This notwithstanding, it is still a fine and engaging science fiction novel. 