Interesting at the beginning but within first fifty pages I got lost, did not know which direction the story was going. The novel has some interesting chapters scattered in between the main story but I got disappointed that they turned out to be independent stories with no connection to the main story. Some of the description of the so called gods, their clothing, their looks and the dietary habits was nauseating. Because of so many rave reviews I completed the novel and the question that I had in my mind what is the point remained unanswered. If you ever have a chance to listen to a Neil Gaiman book on audio, do it. I believe he narrates several of his audio books and he is a velvety voiced reading god. Beyond the stellar narration, the story was just so so. I started reading it last year and quickly grew bored, so I stopped. Then I decided to give it another go when I found the audio version with Gaiman reading. This is a book that started off as a short story and was expanded into a novel, and you can tell. For me, it still sits somewhere in between a short story and a full blown novel, and I thought it could have used some more expanding and exploring of the characters, most of whom felt never fully realized. Still, the narration of Gaiman merits an extra star, and I did enjoy letting him read to me. I realize this book was an award winner and many people enjoyed it. I liked the concept but Gaiman did not make me care enough about the characters or the coming war to draw me in. There was probably about two month gap between my reading the bulk of the book and the last few chapters. The gods are much more exciting and engaging in their legends and myths than they were in this novel. I felt the writing was very articulate, but not too high brow. It was very readable and the main character was a likable guy, but I felt I never really knew him. The defining moment that happened prior to the book opening was never really explained. Overall I felt like there was no middle to the story. You just meandered along trying to figure things out and then it is the finale, even the finale was anti climactic. I am not really sure what happened and I could see how this might be a compelling TV show with the visuals, but it left too much to my imagination. It was well written and it flowed along fine, but I wanted more depth. Since this is such a classic by Gaiman, I kept expecting the book to grip me and envelop me in the imagination of Gaiman. Unfortunately, that moment never quite arrived for me. However, considering the underlying theme of the American tendencies for passing religious affiliation to various fads, perhaps Gaiman achieved his goal and offered me the atmosphere created by a world of fickle populism. 