Where to start, first off this book was amazing. Just as amazing as the other books in this series. And I can no just pick one favorite from this series. But back to this story, I almost did not read Kellans point of view because so often when a story is one point of view and then the author decides to throw in a second point of view in a different book, it falls so flat for me. This was not the case at all for Kellans story. I felt like I was reading a completely different book. Of course, it had a lot of the same scenes as the first book. But it was written so beautifully that instead of feeling like I was watching a rerun of a movie or show. It added to the effect and I still had the reference from the first book. All those times I read the first book and wished I had insight to how Kellan felt, or what he was thinking. I had it, and I remembered clearly what Kiera was feeling or thinking. I could go on and on about this book. I could go on and on about this series. But I am going to end it here and just say. This is my all time favorite story and I have never had just one. This blows every book I have ever read out of the water, so amazing, so beautiful, so broken, so everything. Kellen Kyle is one of my all time favorite book boyfriends. When I found out the author was giving us Thoughtless in his point of view, I was over the moon. I luckily got a signed copy of it from her in Boston when we signed together at the North Shore signing, but I waited until I had the book to read it because I of course was not risking ruining a signed copy. This book was amazing since it lets us see the side to the first story, and opened my eyes a lot to the situation from his perspective. I sympathize with him and hurt for him in this book. Reading how much he loved Kiera and how hurt and torn he was having to accept she was his when he knew in his soul they belonged together. I miss this couple so much and would read anything this author publishes for them. The first time I read this book, I wanted to chuck my table at someone, preferably Kiera. I figured it was a sacrifice I was willing to suffer through if need be. Glad to say there was no sacrificing or suffering. My only disappointment with this series is that every girl that meets Kellan just finds him over the top handsome. The great thing about humans is that our opinions are different and what one person likes another person dislikes. For example, I personally do not find blonde, blue eyed, tall lean men attractive and I have more of a Mark preference. With all this being said, this is a great series but in reality what one woman finds attractive does not mean another woman will feel the same. I got to see both Kellan and Kiera in a somewhat different light. I liked that more of Kellan childhood and his bond with Denny was included in the story and it made everything more heart wrenching for me. It is amazing that Kellan is this sexy rock god who can have any woman he wants, yet he is so incredibly insecure. I thought my heart would break when it was revealed why he had so many sexual encounters. Without ruining anything, it is not for your normal reasons of numbing the pain he carried around with him. It made me want to hold him and assure him that everything would work out for him, and he would be okay. And Kiera, well, there were plenty of times in reading their story in earlier novels that I wanted to strangle this girl. 