This is not a profound life altering book, just another fluff piece. My patience with the men in these types of novels is low. I read this to feel good for a little while and take my mind of if things. That being said here is why it is a one star. Main male character is a slut because of course why write a guy with any depth when you can take the easy way out and make him a slave to his penis. We see detailed hook ups at the beginning, I usually overlook those even though they are unnecessary. Then we are well into the story, past the part where they have started hanging out and getting to k ow each other. When female main character comes over to tutor him and walks in mid sex with another girl. Instant story killer and It is cheap and a little gross. Note to authors, it is a romance novel. I do not need to read about it in your bargain bin novel. This book did not really get my attention the way a good book usually does and I am not sure why. The story was interesting and unique, the writing was good, the humor although sometimes tacky was funny, and the romance and chemistry was definitely great. It just felt like something was missing. An essential piece to make the story a page turner. There just was not enough spark and I felt like the story dragged on, not in a super boring slow paced way. Just average introduction of environment and characters developing way, until it finally got interesting towards the end. I am not sure what exactly could have upped the book. Perhaps more drama in the beginning and middle of the book. Or a more unpredictable story line perhaps. Either way, I get why the series is popular. The author is skilled and many factors, like character development, chemistry, drama and twists and turns, makes this book worth its popularity. It just did not do it for me. The strongest voice award in this story goes to Garrett. He is exactly what you would expect the captain of a college hockey team to be and he is unapologetic about it. On the other hand, I struggled to connect with through most of the book. Her point of view feels like a watered down echo of Garrett, and some of her actions or reactions seem mismatched with her back story. Regardless of my thoughts, the author kept me reading and intrigued throughout a story about hockey. Predictable in parts, maybe, but entertaining and that is the entire point, and what moves me forward with the other books in the series. I rarely write a review, but I felt compelled to write for this book. I thought the story line was good, premise cute, witty and humorous conversation. However, a fifteen year old girl was drugged and raped and the attacker got off Scott free, plus his parents sued her parents and won for legal fees. A man who beats his wife, son and girlfriend, the victims never seek help, and no one ever notices bruises and tries to help them. Any designated reporter would cringe when reading that. I would have preferred to see justice prevail. I really liked the hero in this story and my two stars go to him. 