The story was busy and on the cutesy side for the author. It just never spoke to me other than some appeal for the older guy, younger girl romance, despite my ambivalence. Most movie actors are narcissists, not unlike Cole, so maybe the romance of the couple would have grabbed me more outside the context of film making. Only certain scenes captured my attention and the rest felt tedious and rife with filler and quirky characters and lame movie production situations. Breaking my rule about movie industry romances turned out to be a predictable mistake in this case. However, it does not detract from my love for other books of this author. More power to the fans who clearly enjoyed it. This was my first book by this author and I am thinking maybe I should have started with a different one because if they are all like this I may not read her anymore. The premise of the book was sweet but way too long on the little details. The inner monologue was so long at times I started just skimming through paragraphs. The majority of the book is told through Summers thoughts and a lot of them repeating. I almost out the book down, but kept at it because they made a movie so it must be great. Also the constant comparisons to Nadia were extremely annoying. This was a light enjoyable read and pretty much what I expected, with one exception. My issue with Hollywood Dirt is the change in narrative style from first person to third person throughout the story. At first I found this to be quite jarring but eventually shifted my mental gears more readily once I knew to expect it. However, I never liked the switch between storytelling styles and it always managed to pull me from the story, an aggravation. I know this is simply a personal preference, but I wish the author had picked one style and stuck with it from beginning to end. This reader would have enjoyed the story more. This book is okay but kinda boring. This definitely was not one of my favorites, I found it kind of repetitive and very predictable. Cole and Summer hated each other throughout the entire book but deep, deep down they each had feelings for each other too. It took the entire book for those feelings to finally surface and to get your reflection. This is definitely not one that I would want to read again. Did not love it but did not hate it either, just kind of do not care. I know everyone is over the moon abut this book. I love the the writing of this author and am wondering if all of the five stars are because of the author and not the actual story here. This book was a bit slow and the writing was good, the characters were okay but I felt no connection with them. An A list, drop dead gorgeous actor falls for a southern girl nobody. 