I bought this book for my daughter for Christmas, but really, I bought it mostly because I thought it would be a unique addition to our book collection. This book will not disappoint, It is truly a work of art, absolutely gorgeous. My daughter has a great appreciation and respect for books. When she received this, I explained to her that this book is very special and she has to be careful with it. She will spend lots of time carefully looking at the pictures, mesmerized by the colors and pop ups and insists to read this before bed every night. This book would not be ideal for a child under five. From experience, I can say that kids under five will most likely rip up a pop up book. To have this one ripped up would be a shame. This book is truly beautiful and a wonderful addition to any collection, and a joy to read for adults and children alike. One of my all time favorite novels and the Snow Queen is a great story, if you want to read it at that level, with a steady quick pace and just one twist after another that loops into a seamless ending. But if you want to dig deeper, the book has a lot to say about love, civilization, politics, justice, and how it is that we come to be who we are. There is a great nature versus nurture debate in the characters. I love it because, like Dune, it is a book I can read over and over again and still find something I did not quite see before. The author is an amazing author, who battled some serious traumatic head injury that put her career on hold. I make sure she is part of my personal library wherever I go. The pop ups and illustrations are fantastic fairy tale artwork and to check it out further you can look for a video online of this version. The pop up execution is really detailed, if you are a fan of the story, you must know this is abridged, and quite so. It is fabulous for a pop up collection, or a Snow Queen fan, but not without the full story in a separate book. It would have been wonderful to portray the happy ending in full color and dimension. For those with tender children that the original scene with the robber girl with the knife and all is either left out or altered till it is not all that scary, if at all. One of the pop ups, this first one if I remember correctly, is of a scary looking goblin and he is all over the page in his scariness. Search for the video if this is a concern. My grandmother sent this particular version of the snow queen to my sisters and I when we were little, and nearly thirty and five years later I could still remember clearly the haunting images of the Snow Queen peering into a frosted window. So, I bought a copy and the story remains mostly true to the original, which is important for those of us who are purists about our fairy tales. The pop ups in this book are intricate and beautiful, and they really bring the story to life. They are colorful and detailed, and seem sturdy enough to withstand a good amount of handling. It might be difficult to read for some people. Overall, though, I am very pleased with the product and I am excited to share this story with my friend. 