I got this book as a freebie and I did not read all of the reviews so imagine my surprise when it ends with a cliffhanger. I am just putting that out there for those people who may not like cliffhangers. This book is awesome and it is the first book that I have read from this series. That being said, I do not feel like I missed anything by not reading books one to two. This book has major twists and turns that you just did not see coming if you did not read any reviews. I am not going to spoil the plot for anyone on this review. The story is intriguing and it will draw you in. I mean what is not to love about a seal who is hot, caring, and all around good guy. There were moments of sorrow, there were moments of heat, and there were moments of humor. Dual point of view, however, we get point of view of Natalie more so than that of Liam. Where do I even begin and from the very beginning my heart felt like it was in my throat. Being a military wife for the past twelve years this book truly hit home for me. I have attended memorials and there are just no words to express the emotions that run through you when trying to console the family of the fallen. Corinne brought all those emotions to the forefront and made me feel as if I were a part of the story going through every emotion as it happened. When Liam came in the picture to help Natalie it was so easy to fall in love with him and his selflessness. The easy banter between the the two had a smile on my face as if the entire scene were playing out before me. Without giving anything away let us just say I laughed so hard when he took care of Aarabelle and used rope. The surprises that were thrown in were just and I am so anxious to find out what happens next because I was left utterly speechless with the last turn of events. An amazing read from an amazing author and I cannot wait for more. Holy crap girls be ready and I mean get your Kleenex some wine or whatever alcohol you require then grab some depends. As hard as I cried is as hard as I laughed. The story of Natalie is hard and I love her she is my favorite female now and you will love her. Now we have the hotness that is Liam he is swoon worthy and he is perfection. This grabs you from the start its compelling and I was not able to stop reading, sleep who needs that. The writing is exceptional I am beyond blown away. Thank you, a contemporary I fell in love with. It has been so long since a contemporary book has gripped me like this one. How I love Liam, you are perfection to me. From sexy navy seal to handyman around the house to a hot babysitter to an all around amazing man that I swooned over the entire book. I had a smile plastered on my face almost the entire time. The love scenes between Natalie and Liam were a perfect combination of sexy and sweet. There was a twist midway through the book that I did not see coming and another one at the end, major cliffhanger. Now I am in book hangover land wishing that I could wake up tomorrow and book two would be on my kindle why. 