This is one of the most moving, caring, emotional novels I have ever read. I read this book only because I had met Delia and have read her wildlife books she wrote with husband Mark Owens. After starting the book, this was all I could think about for days. The life of Kya become part of mine and the characters ceased to live on the page. Characters were alive with me and I was in the marsh, feeling every feather, the air, creatures and the plants. Jumpin became a trusted friend and so many moments touched my very soul. But a novel like this is not my normal read. Maybe I need to now reconsider what I choose as this book stopped me cold and made me rethink a lot that happened in my life. Delia touched the human soul with her behavioral descriptions. She is not only a respected wildlife scientist, she is a human behaviorist and understands more about the human condition that just about anyone else I know. Like the main character, Kya, I am a compulsive collector of treasures from those Great Rock Tumblers, the Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean which makes this book so attractive to me. However, the writing of this author is more than just about the natural world. She spins a good and very well written tale about murder, courtroom drama, nature, poetry, and even love. Another reviewer described the writing as lyrical. Take your time and savor every sentence. My favorite book of the year by far, so beautifully written, no skimming over sections in this book. I devoured every single word. I laughed, I cried a lot and most importantly thought differently about life, mine and everyone else. I became the character of Kya, desperately alone and forced to try to eke out an existence on her own in the marshes. The marshes are their own separate character, but despite the fact that I am freaked out by insects and mud and most other creepy crawlies, I could actually imagine myself enjoying the Carolina experience, hard as it was. You will root for Kya, I did, sometimes shouting out loud. I read this book in one day and can not stop thinking about it. There are several clues to the surprise ending if you pay attention to the details and this book is a keeper. Let me start by saying that this is the first review I have ever given. I am a voracious reader and have over five thousands books in my library. I read fiction, non fiction, political, bios, horror, true crime, and everything in between. The plot sounded like something I might be interested in with intrigue, mystery, murder, and love. You will feel compassion for the main character like you may have never felt before. This book brought me to tears at the end and I recommended it as a must read. I do not think you will walk away not remembering Kya for a long time. I loved this book from the very first sentence to the very last sentence. The prologue begins in 1969 in the Marsh. From the first few sentences describing it that Marsh is a space of light, where grass grows in water, and water flows into the sky, you are pulled into the wonderful descriptive writing. 