Unfortunately thousands of adults, mainly women, could write autobiographies about living with enabling mothers, controlling fathers, and being enablers themselves. Maybe with less medical emergencies thrown in, there was no insight into why women live this way. Why women with a chance to leave abusive destructive relationships, families, stay. Why women, live with, stay with and enable abusive, mentally ill, men. More importantly how to change, how to leave. The book begins with Tara as a young child so she knows no other way, however Tara is, I believe, around twenty eight years old with a PhD in history from Cambridge by the end of the book. Absolutely no insight as to why, even as an adult, she continually returns home and tolerates, allows, family, young children, relatives, to be harmed living in this horrible family dynamic. I have no doubt the author had a terrible childhood and terrible parents, but like the author of The Glass Castle, there are just too many unbelievable medical emergencies. A car accident where the whole family goes over a cliff without wearing seat belts and no one dies seemed incredible. The mother is supposedly brain damaged after the accident, but there is no diagnosis from a medical professional to confirm that, but the brother catching on fire to the point that his skin is burned off down to muscle and sinew. That something terrible happened to her brother, I believe, that her horrible parents caused something terrible to happen to her brother. But that he suffered what she describes as third degree burns, sought no medical attention, and actually recovered, that I do not believe that. I am sorry this memoir was not believable for me, so it was not instructive. I returned it to audible, but I have to say the narrator was great. I found the book to be mostly a page turner, but not enjoyable. I expected to be inspired, but I disliked almost all the characters including Tara. Maybe I am just cynical, but I have to wonder that was this really non fiction. There were just too many coincidences and the sequence of events just too neat to be real. The story was very fascinating but this was not real. I was duped into my worst nightmare, if you are going to read this, you feel obligated because your stupid book club picked it. The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. This is a painful tale of a dysfunctional and abusive family. A few of the children manage to escape and academically succeed, but one wonders about the degree to which their background has caused significant psychological scarring. As I read it, the returns and attempts to have a normal relationship only serve to make Tara experience the old, chronic and understandable self doubts about her own sanity. It is hard for me to give a true star rating. It was an interesting read, but hard to like a book which largely dwells on the ignorance and pain inflicted on the children. At least a few escaped, but as I said initially, at what psychological cost. 