As a mother, especially the mother of a passionately conservative teenager entering his college search year among today unsettling environment, I am so grateful to the author for writing this timely book. I have grown increasingly concerned with the unnecessary and completely unwarranted infighting within humankind along with an erosive tribalism mentality that certain ideologies seem to want to perpetuate in order to control more and more people enabled by adults who should know that they are being played. That anyone is still allowing this to happen is what has been baffling me. Enter the author and The Right Side of History, which touches upon the incidents that led us to this madness and seeks to solve these issues which have become insurmountable to some of us. Thank you Ben, I am so grateful to you for helping to raise the necessary awareness on behalf of our children. The Right Side of History is historically accurate and philosophically consistent. It stays on the academic and logical side of the delicate balance between patriotic nationalism for no other reason than Merica and a reasonable argument that indeed as he contends in the book. The author has once again proved his argument through reason and answered his critics with undeniable truth. It is far more than meager glorification of Western civilization. He spends ample time explain how we got where we are in the West and why the left wants to destroy the idea of democracy. An incredible read which was well worth reading the entire book the day it was released. Very Informative book, he gives his interpretation on what USA was founded on. This is why my family immigrated to the USA from Mexico on its foundation. This book was made to reunite not divide, I can not be thankful enough for the author. I am now a conservative and I am so much happier. Ignore the one star comments, dose not even make sense the reviews written honestly. If you go in reading the book with negative labels on the conservatism of course your not going to enjoy the book. So it is for people who are open to learning about what America was founded on and our values as America. It dose not have to be yours specifically to this day but it is what America was founded on. There is a lot of things I disagree with this author about and there is some things I agree with. I hate reading about history and I can not stand novels. I pretty much can only tolerate textbooks. This book, however, was an easy read. I did not like his other books but thoroughly enjoyed this one as I feel its structure and presentation is fairly clear. If you dig into some of the information you will see some differences between his interpretation versus other interpretations. The raw information itself is fairly pure and unadulterated. Excellent book, this author is correct when he says this is a book everyone needs to read. I came home from work to find this book waiting for me and as soon as I cracked it open I could not put it down. I am only about one third of the way through and I will update this review if my opinion changes but, I doubt it will. I will not give any detail because, you should buy the book yourself but, as always, the author lays out his argument in a thoughtful, informative, and simple to grasp manner. 