I remember seeing this author for the first time on a TV interview and thought he was just on as a novelty appearance. But, listening to him made my jaw drop, finally, someone who talks intelligently and dose not condescend to just dish out boiler plate campaign speak. Though I never give political donations, I went right to his website and gave him a donation. This guy needs to at least have a seat at the table. Then another never happened when I bought his book. Again, blown away by what I read. I urge anyone reading this to read this book and take today coffee money and send it to his campaign. Getting money out of politics so we can get more quality people to run is a front burner issue for me and the author is the real deal. I am from Indiana and I had heard of the author before he announced that he was considering running in the 2020 presidential election. He is not simply a long shot and he has become a David in a field full of Goliaths. With that said, he clearly has the background that can appeal to people from nearly everywhere in the United States. His degrees from Harvard and Oxford are impressive. The author was a Rhodes scholar and was deployed to Afghanistan and he talks about going to nearly every county in Indiana to shake hands and talk to people. The author is young enough to have the energy to campaign all over the country. I would recommend reading the sample of this book, if nothing else. You can get a glimpse of South Bend and the way that it has changed over the years. Could not put this book down and the author comes across as authentic, humble, witty, brilliant, and extremely likable. This book is so unlike the other books I have read by the aspirational Democratic politicians of our time seeking the 2020 nomination. In contrast, it is a journey written from the heart by a keen observer of life. The author has the rare gift of policy acumen and warmth. Would not be at all surprised if we are witnessing the beginning of a long, fruitful, and inspiring career in national politics and let us all hope for that. Before I read The Shortest Way Home, I admired what I knew of the educational, and professional choices of this author. The book shows that this was part of a life strategy built on service in politics and the military. The author records the details and outcomes of a variety of challenges he experienced as Mayor of South Bend, all with analytic detail, an appreciation for building networks of shared values to get things done, and a loving commitment to the people he has served to date. This is why he will be a great presidential leader. The book shows he has the fundamental experience and a quiet, confident boldness to commence this leadership now. What in almost any other context might seem dry which streets get to have certain names, was complex and quite educational. In both public and private arenas, he listens carefully and clearly values the many different opinions of others. When I lived in Chicago a long time ago I had visited South Bend a few times but never thought that it was as interesting a city as it is now. In a way this book is also the mayors valentine to his city. 