A great read and a very entertaining romp through philosophical thought by a skilled wordsmith, but I would say the age cut off for this book is fifty. Beyond fifty, you have probably already learned most of the lessons in this book the hard way, however, I can see where it can be extremely helpful for a generation that spends most of its waking hours posting narcissistic fly on their cell phones. If you are a millennial, or even a disenchanted generation, pick up this book. It will give you at least a more healthy point of view. But, if you are over fifty, you are not going to find anything new in here except entertainment. It is an entertaining read sometimes, but to me, it comes across as philosophies that are the result of aimless musings that materialize as a rant. We have enough pissed off teenagers. Since when does writing as one make you a best seller, where you sit on your high horse as being able to accept your own mediocrity. What kind of leadership is that, the author is correct in identifying our culture of exception. He could very well be the counter balance we need to the messages we receive from empowerment seminars, celebrities and successes. But does he ever question whether this empowerment gives people hope, and helps with the day to day struggle. The tone is judgmental, rather than empathetic and the experience is cheapened by colloquialisms. Okay, I do not want to be super critical, but I suppose that by giving this book a one star review, I am already doing that. What I do not like is that his message ends even before developing that message. This book glorifies the idea of not caring or letting some things go but just stops there. I have read a great number of texts that also see the merit in energy conservation but go beyond it, helping the reader to see the importance of living out their truth and working hard for what they believe in and read any yoga philosophy book for this insight. This book basically just says, stop caring about a bunch of stuff and then leaves it at that. Maybe some folks are into it, but to me it was less than inspiring and not at all novel. I could also live without the redundancy of the word which made the book read like a conversation overheard at a frat party. So, I guess this is fairly critical after all. Looking at it now I got exactly what I should have expected. Did not make much sense overall. His examples and approach is all too broad and dose not really guide you in any way in my opinion. Some may find this useful and entertaining but to me it was a total waste of time and he was just trying to sound cute with an appealing book title. Luckily I bought this on audible so I was able to return this with ease. This book starts art okay, it is an exciting premise, do not give a fuck. But the authors examples are long stories, stretched to prove a point and fill up pages I feel. After the first third was over and the author talks about visiting fifty countries and banging chicks every night, it gets really tiresome. I could not even finish this title. The Subtle Art could also be an updated, more version of Do Not Sweat the Small Stuff. 