While this edition is a very good game, there are some serious issues with the printing, storage, construction of the books. Two friends and I all got this book, and all three of us had pages that were warped. It almost looked water damaged, but I do not think that is the case. Looking through other reviews of not just the Player Handbook, but also the Guide, and the Monster Manual, apparently this is a common issue with books. Pages are warped, binding is off center, and in the case of the guide, a lot of people are getting copies that have the cover attached upside down. I would love to give this a higher rating, because I love these books, but until they can fix whatever is causing all of these books to be garbage quality, I just can not. So, the content is wise, it is great and I agree with the five star reviews. But, here is the thing that it is poorly made. I have one, and so do three of my friends, a couple of them have more than one copy. Every single one of them are falling apart because the binding has come apart. We all treat our books with the utmost care too, they are in perfect condition except the pages are all falling out. It is really horrible and the three copies of this series we have in the group are doing the same thing. The books are beautifully written, the artwork is wonderful, but the books themselves terribly made. I am thinking of removing all the pages and transferring them to a binder. I Am A huge Dungeons and Dragons fan and purchased this book a while back. The edition is great, but after having my book sit untouched and unused for a while I finally began to use it recently. The only problem is that this one along with another copy that my friend has is suddenly falling out of the seams. Barely used, I always take care of my books, yet it is falling out of the binding. This is a known issue now, I wish I had known before. I need a new book, will update with photo when possible. As much as I like this book, the way that they traditionally organize their material is awful. Mechanics are introduced in a completely absurd order, during race selection, first of the character creation process, you are given these modifiers that you have to go over one hundred pages ahead to find out what they do. It dose not function as a read through because it is all out of order. And it is not a very good reference piece either, because the tables are limited. There is no actual list of Ritual Spells in the book, they are scattered through the list of all spells. Advantage, Disadvantage, new mechanics and terms, and even old ones, there is no easy reference glossary to refer to. Just go to the index, thumb through the book, and scan the page for the one paragraph you need. The system is great, but whoever organized this book as material should be sent back to the drawing board. 