I do not usually write reviews, but the thing is I like the author but this book is so far from the standard he sets in his dialogue that I have to express disappointment. I felt like most paragraphs were rambles that made me think What the hell does this have to do with the actual rule. So much of this book felt painful to read because of how dull and pointless it was. Please do not read this book and it will ruin your perception of this author. I was excited about this book and the forward by the author made me even more excited about this book. And then I started reading it, or trying to. This is some of the most repetitive, rambling text I have ever tried to slog through. I strongly suggest previewing this book at a library or book store. If you have the same reaction I have had, you will put it right back down, saving yourself time and money. The author, may I suggest a variation on your rule ten. Be concise in your speech, or at least provide a summary paragraph. Make your point and do not make readers dig to find it. This book starts rather well, the chapter on lobsters and serotonin biochemistry is pretty spot on from what I know about evolutionary biology, however, the book continues with the next several chapters heavily relying on biblical stories, it is not my thing at all being an atheist. Nonetheless I was hoping this book would give me some interesting new ideas, and it failed to deliver. Secondly, he is not a very gifted writer in my subjective opinion. You may disagree ,but I found his writing incredibly dry and actually boring. I wanted to like this book, but could not. Too many hyphenated and parenthetical sections that caused sentences to run too long. Each chapter included examples and stories but their relevance to the chapter rule was not always clear. While trying to sort through the run on sentences and stories of questionable relevance, I could not even remember what rule the chapter was addressing. I did learn some things from this book, but I did not enjoy it and struggled to finish it. I am an engineer so maybe that explains my difficulty. I appreciate the sincerity and conviction Peterson maintains throughout his book. I found that those things that resonated with me really resonated. I imagine the author would not consider this a problem, exclaiming, that is the whole point. 