Although a lot of the claims the author makes seem rather unsubstantiated, the book is a tumult of wonderfully provocative ideas. Many of these ideas, particularly those about human evolution and cognitive development, have been around in various guises for years. But this book does a wonderful job bringing together many disparate theories about who we are and how we got here, that it is worth the read. I use the Kindle highlighting feature a lot when I read, and for this book I think I highlighted something pretty much every page or two. I was blown Away and this book was packed full of history and stories and thoughts of how the world has been since the beginning of time. I am not as smart as I would like to be and I tried to keep up with all the history and stories, but I really enjoyed how information was presented at such a high level, something I am really bad at doing. The author is like a walking computer database but with feelings. Thank you sir, I really enjoyed this book. I do not know and I am not good also with saying what I want to say, but great book. This book ought to be on every college or even high school curriculum. The subtitle, A Brief History of Humankind, does not mean that it is not very deep and very, very intense. Giving it an honest read, put aside all your cognitive biases about everything, will open your eyes, and free your mind so that you can think critically. Since this is a book of actual facts, some readers in this post truth world might have a hard time swallowing it. Anyone finding this book difficult to read probably dose not understand what facts and evidence are. These days, the line between facts and opinions very nearly dose not exist. This book draws a hard and desperately needed line between the two. An interesting and thoughtful read for history buffs, and really for non fiction readers who might be curious about how we as a species got here. It is a commonly held belief that we humans have rightfully emerged to rule over all the creatures of the earth. I think this book is best suited for those with an open mind and willing to accept scientific evidence as fact. The subject matter is heavy and I often had to pause after each section to digest and consider the content before moving on. It truly is a fascinating topic on its own, but the author takes it a step further by including cliffhanger like leads into the upcoming chapters that makes it a fun read. The popularity of this book is well deserved and it is indeed difficult to put it down. This is a guided tour throughout human history with a short glimpse into the future at the end. Every chapter wakes up a sense of wonder, and sheds new light on what before seemed only mundane and uninteresting. As a student of history and a fiction writer, it is rare that I find a book that ensnares the scope of the human story in accessible language. I have written many papers and too long theses in historical prose. Each time I have lamented their restricted audience. 