I am giving this book a five star review even though I have not read it, do you know why. Just because you do not like the author dose not mean you should give something a bad review, that is not right people. This author keep fighting the good fight, and you are appearance on the Howard Stern show today was fantastic. I have read all of the books of this author and preordered this one. We have eyes, we know she is successful, quite the opposite I think she was trying to find out, while all of her success or money is great, why is not she still satisfied and at peace. Coming from a large family I can relate to her upbringing, we also laughed a lot and still do, so I very much enjoyed their dynamics. So very sad she lost her very close brother, I can not even imagine. Overall I liked the book, appreciate she is wanting to do better by becoming involved. I also know I will be in the minority here. This book was sort of disjointed, much like my review. I think the other reviews on here are reviewing this author as a personality from the past, rather than her current book. In this book the author acknowledges her bouts of out of touch reality in the recent past and struggles with finding herself and true meaning in life. All with that satirical slight self deprecating humor I have come to love from her books. This book has already inspired me and motivated me to take another hard look at my own self and the world we live in. This book is not throwing wealth in your face as one reviewer put it. She has to explain the bad, the wealth and privilege, so you understand her journey. It is true that this book is very much unlike all of the other books of this author. The voice, the narration is still the same. The author as funny and ruthless at picking on herself as she is with anyone else. You might not like the author and what she represents, but you should at the very least respect her for being so honest and open with the world with her flaws. All of us play holier than thou behind a keyboard and point fingers at everyone and how terrible they are except for ourselves, so read the book and self reflect. I am a big fan and I have read all of the books of this author and enjoyed all of them. This one is her best work by far and she is honest and genuine. Although she goes into depth about serious and intimate topics, she still keeps her conversational and humorous tone throughout the book. When I read it, I could hear the voice of this author speaking the words. The author stayed true to herself and her comedy while diving into deeper topics and personal stories than her other books. I felt like I was in the room with her in her therapy session. I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to hear honest stories in a light and conversational tone. 