This book is crap and the author feels the need to keep bringing up the fact that she is, apparently, the perfect organizer. She talks about herself entirely too much, and once I got the part about getting rid of all of my books I was like, nope. I understand her concept that you should throw away anything that dose not make you feel happy when you touch it, but some of her ideas are ridiculous. Get rid of most of your seasonal clothes and only keep things that can be worn year round. I live in Maine and it gets cold in the winter and hot in the summer, so explain to me what I am supposed to wear. I could not get into the writing style and only read the bold font. I am not a hoarder but I do think I have to much stuff. I am not going to have emotional connections with everything in my house. I am not going to say my phone brings me pure joy or my silverware is life saving. I still need these items regardless. This was not life changing or magical for me and it gave me food for thought, for sure. My house is not a wreck and I am not a pack rat, so maybe it would have more dramatic results for a truly messy person. I definitely liked some of her ideas, but found her attitude of aiming for perfection was not for me. The idea that this had to be an all or nothing project, done from start to finish within months, was incompatible with my own life. Small steps and small chunks of time are all I have. And I think most people do not have a few months to devote to her method. Still, there were some good ideas in the book, worth trying in small steps for improvement rather than life changing magic. In a nutshell, I would say she feels like you should throw almost everything away. It is good to be reminded that we do not need a lot of stuff, but I can not quite go to that extreme. However, if you take what you like and put some of her ideas into practice, it can still be helpful. Was so excited to read the book and she seems to talk about herself a lot. The content is very redundant even within the same section. There is a lot of fluff. I think this book could have been a very good pamphlet. Talking to your house and clothes is just too strange for me. The way the author worded things was like as long as you were tidy everything in life gets better. Like you will lose weight, acne will clear up, relationships will be better, you become a stronger person etc so this book is a little bit cuckoo, no it is a lot cuckoo. Some good concepts, but assigning human emotion to inanimate objects is silly to me. Unpacking your entire purse every day and putting the stuff into a drawer, seriously. Why not just unpack the remains of the day, but leave your wallet in the bag. 