I have been a fan of this author since another book came out. This book is rambling and makes little sense, like many who dislike President Trump, the author can not come up with anything truly valid, and this story ends with a long drawn out tale about how great the weather service is and how people should place more faith in the government. The author tries to make the case that Trump and his administration are incompetent and do not have a clue during the transition process, but the truth is that very rarely is a transition smooth unless it is the Vice President assuming office like Bush from Reagan. Again, this book is very disjointed and straining to make a case but falling far short. What a disappointment, I have read and thoroughly enjoyed every Michael Lewis book but I guess all good things must come to an end. These anti Trump books are so played out and I would have expected this kind of writing to be beneath him. I guess not though and maybe the author needed the money. We all know this theme sells which is why everyone and their dog is writing one. The worst part is that a fair amount of the info he opted to include in this book makes me seriously question the non fiction aspect of his other books. We all know that history is always up for interpretation and that as more time passes the more our own memories can become victim to remembering events differently. I just always liked to believe that Lewis controlled for this inherent bias. He transitioned to championing the good works of some significant unsung heroes in various government agencies and ended the book without making a point. I am glad I read the book, but I feel a little disappointed about what was trying to be said. So I purchased the book as it promised to get into the details of what would become the Trump transition fiasco. Well after getting into it the book it ends up pandering to big government bureaucrats. If the head of the US makes it his main job to get as many people on food stamps as possible, that is a problem. You may like this book but it had too many parts that made my stomach churn. Before I bought this I was under the false impression that this would provide a detailed, apolitical look at the value provided by some of the often overlooked departments of government, but this book is not. This book is also very short and you can read it in about two hours. This would have been better served as a long format piece on some website like Post rather than a standalone book. Michael Lewis used to be my favorite author. 