#102. Stranger in a Strange Land
#Robert A. Heinlein
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Stranger-Strange-Land-Robert-Heinlein/product-reviews/0441790348/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I love this book, which is quickly becoming one of my all time favorites, but this is definitely not the uncut version. Since I was required to red the uncut version, I did some research to ensure this kindle version was right, and it definitely is not. I had to drive all over town to find what I needed. But I am now reading them side by side to make notes in my kindle version for reference later, and I can assure you of two things that the kindle version is not uncut, and the uncut version is far richer in language and content and just a better read. Many of the deep philosophical concepts Heinlein included in his novel are simply missing, or abbreviated to the point of near invisibility, in the edited version. I had been wondering what all the fuss was about, until I retread the first five or six chapters in the uncut copy. This is truly a marvelous novel, if you read the right one.

I bought this book because I have a friend at work that this is his favorite book of all time. I now have tried two times to read it. The first time I got thirty three percent through it, put it down from boredom and then now over a year later I decided to try to read it again. I started a the beginning once again, refreshing my memory on the book and now have read sixty six percent and I can not read any more of it. At first the concept was really intriguing but it gets boring very quickly for me and I have to force myself to read on. I understand this was written many years ago and so some of the concepts would be dated that was not the problem. I read classics and older books all the time, no, but this is being quoted as one of the best science fiction books of all time and yet it is main focus is religious philosophy and sex that goes on and on and on and so I give up. Life is too short and there truly are fantastic reads out there. My thoughts on this book is that the two times I tried to read it, was a complete waste of my time.

I am giving this only one star due to false advertising. Please do not be fooled out of your money. This may be a somewhat adequate scan many errors of the original edited edition, but it is by no means the uncut version of this book. I have owned the paperback copy of the uncut edition for years and bought this version to have it in my kindle library. I ended up returning it severely disappointed. Save your money and buy the actual uncut edition in paperback, it is an exceedingly richer read.

I know it is a classic, and I read it forty some years ago and loved it and liked it less this time around. Jubal, who is in many ways the central character is just an insufferable cliche. I guess I thought he was wise when I was nineteen but he is annoying now. The female characters are mostly his harem it seems. The religiosity are the core of the story seems pretty shallow, very the love child feeling at sixties. Half way through I did not know if I could stand Jubal any longer, but I did soldier on to the end and it did get a little better. Seems like a lot of adolescent male fantasy here, I do not think this one stands the test of time.

I read this book to find out what all the hoopla was about back in the day. I am not one to quit a book once I start it, so I had to force myself to finish the stupid thing. I got absolutely nothing out of it, not entertainment, not something to add to my life in any way, not even that great of a story line either. I just do not get why I felt I needed to read it and it was a waste of time and I am now into a book that is fun, fascinating, well written, entertaining, with a great lesson in the story. I am so happy I can look forward to my evening reading again, sorry to disappoint, but the truth is good.

The novel written by this author avoids many of the tropes that I dislike about science fiction, the weird names, the focus on the strange science, lengthy descriptions of strange technology, robots, and weapons, planets with multiple suns, odd violations of the rules of physics, and the lack of any character development or realistic human interaction. I was really enjoying this until, about half way through, the novel veers into an extended rant about how bogus all religion is. Now, I respect all serious religions other than my own, and respect the beliefs of atheists and agnostics, but I do not respect those who do not similarly respect my own beliefs. I do not enjoy a novel that takes as a major theme treating all preachers as carnival barkers.

Finally got around to reading this old classic, parts of it are intriguing, but the rants of Heinlein via his mouthpiece became so tedious that I started skimming them. It is anthropologically interesting to see the growth of the Man from Mars and his friends, but the religion that he develops is laughably heterosexist. I realize Heinlein is a product of his time, but this is kind of painful to read. It is ironic that the author lampoons Muslim Mahmoud, then tries to be inclusive with him, in a primitive way. And he tries to envision an expansive, open culture, brought to Earth by a more advanced civilization. But poor Heinlein absolutely cannot get past heterosexuality, so he develops a cartoon utopia with a Christlike free love mind bending guru. I do appreciate how the carnival casino churches of Heinlein presage the mega churches of today which was totally prophetic.

The novel is a classic and the idea that a human baby raised by Martians and who then returns to earth possessing special powers is nice. But the novel is talky, Jubal, a human who mentors the protagonist on earth, is almost as impossibly unbelievable a character as Michael. And Jubal talks for pages and pages about his own philosophy, the one that tires rapidly of this exposition, the one also tires the female characters who are drawn to the protagonist and convinced by his sexual prowess. This novel was clearly an important book in its day but it does not resonate now.

As Heinlein himself has said, this is a departure from classic science fiction into grand social commentary. The author definitely attempts to tweak as many 1961 noses as he can. The book is more of an investigation of perspectives of Heinlein on the future and structure of religion than science fiction. As with so many good science fiction, authors who is predictions of future technology come true, unfortunately the predictions of the direction of future religion in this book are coming true as well. The cult whose focus is happiness as the ultimate goal of the church in the book, rivals some gigantic congregations today focused on the same thing. The erotic part is taking a bit longer to develop. The technology aspects of the book are not inspiring, but the perspective on religion leaves you thinking.

This was my first and probably also my last Heinlein read. I was intrigued by the concept of a human being raised in an alien environment and placed back on earth. Although I could go on for some time, suffice it to say that the aspects that interested me, for example, the role of language in forming thought were only marginally treated while the author seemed much more interested with an exploration of sexuality. That exploration was generally subdued and tasteful, nothing too graphic or gratuitous, but still not what I had hoped to read. Probably I am just too puritanical, a hiss and a byword in modern America, but this is not my cup of tea.