#104. The Law of Moses
#Amy Harmon
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Law-Moses-Amy-Harmon/product-reviews/1502830825/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=2

I do not know, maybe it is my own fault for not liking this book more, because I went into it expecting something else. The synopsis of this book made me think this would be an epic love story, but it really was not. Moses sees dead people, Georgia is naive and a doormat for him, Moses goes away for sever years, Georgia has Eli, Moses comes back. Someone is killing girls and it felt more like a paranormal mystery than anything. I just did not feel much connection between the two, the love story was flat to me. The writing is beautiful, and I felt real heartache about Eli but I never felt that Moses was really invested in Georgia, and I felt she was too quickly forgiving of Moses. And that is just not my kind of love story. This is the first Amy Harmon book I have read that I discovered another of her books, Making Faces, in my wish list, but I am not sure if I want to waste valuable reading time just to be disappointed in another lackluster romance. Life is so short, and my book list is very long.

Love everything else I have read by Amy Harmon, making Faces is my all time favorite and I sobbed through a different blue. In this story I found too many references to the dead, color, painting, and horses and it became old and repetitive when I really wanted more Georgia and Moses and witness interaction, first half better than second in that respect. While the mystery was compelling and even surprising, the love story was seen in only fleeting moments and second to the whole I see dead people thing. But even as my least favorite by this author, I still have to respect the intellect and creativity.

I found the book to be repetitive where I lost interest during parts of the story. The author tried to create a complicated,troubled young man who could not connect with another human being, leaving others in turmoil and sadness. And then he came back and was cured by one event. Granted the event was not minor but it seemed a contrived cure given everything else going on in his life. The main character lacked a real life, it was too extreme, and so I did not connect.

So, I did not love this book. It was good but I felt like quite a bit was glossed over. For example, rather than say Moses was black, she talks about his light eyes and dark skin for three chapters. Eventually, we learn his father was black, and considering Georgia is one of four girls in town being a black kid was pretty significant. Then when they have sex, you do not actually know they did until Georgia is pregnant. Also, this is kind of paranormal in a sixth Sense and I see deaf people kind of way. That is not really my thing, but the author did a good job of not going over the top and keeping the story on track. I think I am just not a huge fan of the writing style not necessarily the story which was very good.

I loved the book From Sand And Ash of Amy Harmon but I did not like this book as well. I am not sure how I thought the book would end, but being a happily ever after kind of person, I got taken. I will read some of her other books before deciding that my first read was her best. Moses for sure was a very unusual person. Not sure that what he was able to do was an asset for him or a curse. He lived a hard life and seemingly did not enjoy a lot of pleasure, but he was blessed with someone in his short life that truly cared for him and was willing to wait for him and love him forever.

This story was repetitive and dragged on longer than necessary, but the writing, in some parts of the book, was pretty good. The attempt of the author at capturing the essence of troubled soul did not come across for me. He was too complex a character, and I did not feel that I got to know him. His psychic abilities were somewhat far fetched for my liking, and I quickly lost interest when he began seeing dead people. I did finish the story, but I will not be reading next book.

I have got about a quarter of the way to go, but the heartbreak is too grand for me. Once you start bringing in a dead child into the mix, I feel like it is forcing the reader into caring for a character because of their innocence and early demise. It automatically pulls on your heartstrings and I think that is cheating in a way and I also found the death unnecessary. You cannot see beauty for many years to come after that kind of soul shattering situation. The story was very slow and the writing was captivating, but so, very, slow. Pages on pages pass by and there is nothing but a deep feeling of despair over these characters. I had to take breaks because it was too much but I did not race to come back, and it has been a while since I had put it down, I may very well call it quits.

Crack baby artist and medium attracts cowgirl horse loving girl. The book is divided into two sections the early encounters of a couple and seven years later. Spanning this time is also a mystery of girls disappearing and the the family of a girl coping with the relationship between the artist and cowgirl. Characters are well developed, but as mentioned before I thought the personalities of the character, eccentricities were described over and over. The author sprinkles humor in her dialogue even while touching on subjects such as death, ghosts, mental illness. I think my hesitancy in giving this more stars would be the fact that I do not gravitate to paranormal stories.

This is a very good book and it is really hard to give a certain star rating only because of the type of book it is. If you are looking for a happy go lucky funny book then this is not it. If you are like me and read all different genres than I would say add this to your list for sure since the writing is amazing and it is a great life story with lots of emotions. The only reason I gave it only three stars is because it does have a sad undertone, but if it would written so well I could give it 5 stars. The story is like nothing I have ever read and I have added Amy Harmon as a top author on my list.

I wanted to read this because I love the work of Amy. Even with some bad reviews, I gave it a shot. It is a paranormal story, which actually was not off putting, it was rather cool what she did with that side of things. But, the whole book feels divided, like your reading two different stories. Georgia is an acceptably head over heels, annoying seventeen year old but there is no spark between her and Moses. I kept thinking that spark or chemistry would come in sometime but it never did. This story is heartbreaking and insanely sad, and very depressing. There is no comedic relief, and although some could argue that the pain had a purpose, I would say the story was not set up well enough for us to feel it. There is a lot of telling, very little showing. It makes me hesitant to read her next installment in this series.