#105. Smokin' Seventeen (Stephanie Plum)
#Janet Evanovich
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Smokin-Seventeen-Stephanie-Janet-Evanovich/dp/0345527704/ref=sr_1_71?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556636301&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-71

In every book someone is out to kill Stephanie Plum, and no exception here, but here, there are three. An FTA she catches and brings in wants to run her down with her car the same way the FTA did to her own husband. The deranged brother of a man Stephanie shot and killed early in her bounty hunting career plans to kill her for his revenge. And a serial killer is killing people and dumping their bodies with notes attached that say for Stephanie. In the meantime, the love life of Stephanie shifts into high gear as things continue to steam with both Morelli and Ranger, while the mom of Stephanie starts to push an old high school classmate at her. Every book seems to get funnier and funnier, a great break from books that are always so serious.

If you need to laugh out loud occasionally while you are reading a book, you need to read the Stephanie Plum series by this author. I especially enjoy the grandmother of Stephanie and the grandmother is absolutely a hoot, thus I like all of the characters as well. This series is absolutely fun and I love it. I think any reader of any type of literature would have to like this series, too. I am chuckling as I type this, just thinking about Grandma and hr trips to the funeral homes to view the dead and sneak the cookies into her pocketbook.

Have just finished reading books one to twenty of this series. Stephen is an accident waiting to happen, and it is a good thing she has two hot boyfriends to call on to rescue the situation. She is a bail bond enforcer, but she never has her gun and it is tucked away in the cookie jar. Her favorite weapon is a can of hair spray. I personally enjoyed the first six books. Once you meet Sally, you want Sally to appear more often, but Lula is stepping at regular side kick, but there is nothing regular about Lula. There are laugh out loud moments in every book. So get your Apple and order the first book, and I can guarantee you will not stop at one book, enjoy.

Okay, yes, we would all like to see Stephanie pick a guy but where is the fun in that. Yes, they are predictable at times, so what, these books are written for entertainment. Would anyone really go into the worst part of Trenton alone, of course not. These books are supposed to be written as light entertainment. They make me laugh out loud every time I read one and why do you want the fun to end. I like them and as long as the author continues to write them, I will continue to read them. Keep bouncing between the two guys Stephanie, it is fun.

Finally, I have completed my collection of the Stephanie Plum series in hardcover. Seventeen arrived in two days as promised, thanks to Amazon Prime, and in excellent condition. Honestly, you would never guess this book was used. The only strange thing is that the book itself is much smaller than the others , more like the size of the very first books in the series and it does not make any difference, just looks a bit odd in my bookcase. Very pleased with Amazon and the vendor for supplying such a quality product and I am now to reread the entire series of Plum adventures again.

I do not know what these other reviewers wanted from a book, yes this was a little disjointed but each part was interesting well written and Lula is especially funny. Loved the fact that Steph and Ranger finally go together. I would like to see Steph drop the cop and get together with Ranger. This book is far from slow or draggy and I think that if one reads too much of one author, no matter who it is, after a while all the stories sound the same. So get over it, lay off Janet, this book is still the best.

As enjoyable as all sixteen previous books, you bunch of whiners crying about this job skills being no better and her not choosing Morelli or Ranger by now is ridiculous. It is a series of books about the same core characters. Their personalities and choices, or lack of, remain similar in each book, but the story surrounding them changes. I enjoy reading each new book and It is like returning to visit old friends. That is the whole point of a series, revisiting characters you enjoy. So, quit complaining and find a series you do enjoy. What idiot keeps buying books knowing he or she does not like the well established characters in the series.

Stephanie Plum is a bounty hunter who keeps her, usually unloaded, gun in a brown bear cookie jar. The setting is Trenton, New Jersey, where everyone knows everyone. Lulu, a former friend of Stephanie, is as well as an assistant bounty hunter. Plum has two men in her life that Ranger, many of mystery, and Morelli, a guy she has known all her life. The best part is that these books can each stand alone, the recap of characters is not lengthy. The characters are realistic and we all have crazy family members and the mysteries are fun to help solve.

I call this series my literary crack and I am shamelessly addicted, okay, maybe there is a little shame. I think her best books in the series were around eight to twelve, and she really started to lose her momentum around book fifteen. But this book gives me some hope for a brighter Stephanie, filled future. The beginning of the book was slow and felt a little pointless and directionless, but it really started to pick up midway through. Now I am on the edge of my seat again, thanks for the author, keep it up.

I understand that there are people that have given this book and some of the previous ones less than favorable reviews because of the whole triangle, it seems that if it were solved, either way, then those critical of it would not be happy with another aspect of the series. I will admit that there have not been as many laugh out loud moments in the past few books. But if this or the few others had been my first exposure to the Stephanie Plum and saga, I believe there would have been some moments. There are parts of me that wish she would marry Morelli and have babies, but then there are also parts of me that want Ranger to sweep her away and live happily ever after. Since I am not in charge of that, I am a reader for the life of the series, and beyond. I did miss the crazy antics of Grandma Mazur and flatulence this book though, just keep them coming.