#106. End of Days (Penryn & the End of Days)
#Susan Ee
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/End-Days-Penryn/dp/1477829709/ref=sr_1_73?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556636301&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-73

I do not really know where to begin and I loved the first two books, I tore through them in a day. The third one was still good but like everyone else has said, such a disappointing end. I am actually shocked that she wrote this, thought it was a good ending, editors saw it and thought it was okay. Two books worth of tension and questions are answered in two pages. Genuinely, when I got five pages from the end I thought, okay, there must be a fourth book I did not know about. Nope, just wraps up way too neatly which is to say, not neatly at all, very disappointed. That being said, I still do believe this series is worth the read and I think the dialogue between the two characters is wittier than most of you lit so I have to give her that.

The weakest of the trilogy and this book provides an unsatisfactory conclusion to the story. Has a lot of draggy moments that are easily skippable without losing track of the story, which just makes me feel like they were unnecessary filler and then the ending is not a proper conclusion. You start getting a bit of awkward dialogue in this book, but it really goes to another level in the last two chapters which was a shame. It was okay, but in the end a letdown after reading the first book. I feel like this story could have been great had it had a more thought out ending.

End of Days is the conclusion to the angel fall trilogy. I finished reading this book in a day. End of Days begins right where World After left off. This book was the perfect combination of post apocalyptic, action, and adventure. I loved how strong our heroine Penryn is and I love Penryn and Raffe together. I am glad that they got to spend a lot of time together in this book. There were things that I wish had been touched on more, like the of madness of mom of Penryn, but overall I think this book did a decent job of wrapping up the trilogy. I can not wait to see what else comes from the author.

Great story, you need to read the first two books before reading this one. Not finished with this book yet, so I am very curious how it all turns out and I finished this book. As others have mentioned, I was quite disappointed with the ending. It seemed like the author got tired of writing and just hurried up and ended the story. Might as well have ended it like they all lived happily ever after the end, boring and disappointing. I lowered my initial star rating from five to three because of the quick ending.

I had such high hopes for this long awaited last book, but it fell short for me. The plot was cheesy and too fantastical. The talent show scene ruined the book for me. While I did appreciate the sexual tension between Penryn and Raffe at the beginning of the book, it became repetitive. Then the magic was lost. Also, there were still so many unanswered questions such as why was Paige so attached to Beliel, What caused Penryn mom to become the way she was, how did she know about the effect of rotten eggs, has she somehow been to the pit, how did Beliel get to the world or time of Penryn. I can keep going and I was glad the ending was happy but I felt Susan rushed a little.

I really loved the first two books, but for some reason, this one seemed pretty flat. I am not sure if I am building up the first two in my mind, but for whatever reason, I found myself unable to really get invested in the characters or what was going on in the story this time around. I am a sucker for this genre, and I love a good dark, teenager coming of age story, but honestly when it came down to it I was only reading this book so I could get some closure. I guess the book does not pretend to be super deep, but I had a hard time engaging with it, everything seemed very surface, level only. The characters were super easy to predict, and the love story felt pretty forced to me. It is hard to really root for a relationship to work out when the characters have known each other for a week, at the most.

What a lackluster, lame ending with no real conclusions on anything. Why was Paige the redeemer and then not, why did mom know so much, why did Raffe get so worked up for the last two books about Nefelim and then find out, he knew it was no biggie for a few millennium but did not want to bring it up until now. So many things left unsaid and this book became way to romantic. I described the author as the next Stephen King to people to convince them to read her books. Now I hope they do not read this and think what an idiot I was.

Super disappointing ending to a really promising series. Penryn went from motivated bad ass crusader to horny lackluster waif. I do not know if the author was under a short deadline or if she just became obsessed with twilight fever. I was set of finishing the series but it really turned into a torturous chore. I wish I could have just been satisfied with spoilers and spared myself the few hours it took to read this.

I wanted to like this series, when I first read the description for Angel fall I thought it sounded awesome, so when there were odd plot holes I hoped things would get filled in in the subsequent books but it never happened. This series is an example of lazy writing with sloppy storytelling and an extreme lack of character development, and then that ending what a disappointment. I kept waiting for the odd, morbidness to have some meaning in the plot, nope, such a shame.

I absolutely love this series and the first two books are absolutely amazing. But while I was reading this book I could not help but think that the author just gave up and filled the book with the annoying popular cliches. I get it, she is a teenager and he has not had any action in quite a while, but the steamy lust scenes just do not make sense in the light of the previous books. And the ending is a disappointing machine that feels unnatural and poorly thought out. All in all it is a good read, but the bar set by previous books was too high and this book just did not make it.