#11. The Secret Orphan: A gripping historical novel
#Glynis Peters
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Secret-Orphan-gripping-historical-novel-ebook/product-reviews/B07CKQV7F8/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

The book could have undergone at least one more edit, assuming it had already had at least one, the four stars are for story line. Misplaced modifiers galore, missing punctuation, transitions, very few that I could go on. At the end I wondered whether this line of books is supposed to read like the condensed version, or as I suspect, editors do not edit anymore.

From the first page to the last this story grips your attention and does not let go until the end. I was intrigued by the main character as she is a naive young farm girl who is thrown into situations that she does not understand or cannot comprehend where they might go with her or if she will be safe. Sometimes I believe the protagonist might be smart and other times I think she might be, but ultimately she make the correct decisions and it is okay, end well.

The book was enjoyable and I loved the main character similarity to the orphan. However, the reason one star is missing is the fact that without any back story on the orphans parents, in the end they are spies and endangered the orphan. The only hint is they take trips and the main character does not like the father and which was explained away pretty well. I like a out of left field surprise but, felt this just did not make sense with the rest of the book.

The story begins right before the beginning of WWII, and Eleanor who has only been shown love for a brief period before her mother died is left with her twin brothers who she means nothing more than a maid for them. The protagonist is made to go live with her aunt and it actually turns her life around in all areas. The characters are so developed, some you love, some you despise, but none are forgettable. I highly recommend it, for those who like history, love, and how we sometimes have to form our on families, a book well worth reading.

I thoroughly enjoyed the cast of characters which were interesting and well drawn. This WWII novel is set in England just prior to and during the war and it is important that everyone remembers the suffering and struggles of those heroes both fighting and left behind during that period of time. The only confusion was the author names cities that are copied by immigrants when they landed in their new homes. The power of love and having good social skills can overcome much of the trauma that people have endured.

It is especially interesting to read what World War II was like for someone living in England. The war was a historic and tragic event and The Secret Orphan gives a unique, dramatic, and spellbinding insight into European life during the war. The author is a gifted and interesting writer and her ample research and dedication to historical accuracy and enjoyable reading are both evident throughout this historical novel. I very much enjoyed reading her work and look forward to some of her other books.

As the first book I understand of this author, this was an enjoyable read set during WWII. Loved the main characters story, following her growth from a abused daughter and sister to a competent woman talking on the responsibilities many would run from. Needed a bit more proof reading, however did not detract from the plot and story. Add several unexpected twists and turns, all in all it was a memorable story of resilience and growth, would recommend this book.

Historical fiction at its best, a page turner and a must read for WWII history and romance buffs. This is the captivating WWII story of unconditional and sacrificial love between a couple and for their adopted daughter. I loved the characters and the descriptions of life on a rural English farm during the war.

The author did a wonderful job with every aspect of this book and everything was well developed without an excess of words and the places and the people were extremely realistic. You loved some of the characters and hated others, just as the author intended. Although you know there is some secret about the little girl from the title of the book, what the secret was really did not become completely clear until the end of the book.

The protagonist lived on the family farm with her two mean and uncaring brothers when she was summoned to live with her ill maternal aunt. After her aunt passed away she continued to live in the house, now her home. The protagonist returned to run the farm while her brothers fought in the war and meets a Canadian pilot but even that relationship is filled with problems. In this story we learn of life of the protagonist, love and losses.