#111. A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)
#Vernor Vinge
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Deepness-Sky-Zones-Thought/dp/0812536355/ref=sr_1_83?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656927&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-83

This is the second book in the series and contains the prequel of Pham Nuwen adventures that lead up to his being found in the first novel. The first novel gave us a species of alien that were a race of collective beings or intelligence. This one turns the bug war theme on its head and shows us a sympathetic species of arachnids. This species is being watched by group of Queng Ho and an antagonistic rival, the Emergent with the hopes the arachnids will develop the technology that will save the humans and allow them to go home. Spanning over forty years of objective time, the author spins one of the most imaginative science fiction stories I have ever encountered. We have vivid description of the advancing of an alien civilization, we have the back history of the Queng Ho and Pham Nuwen and the conflict between space faring cultures. The author is a mind boggling visionary.

This a typical Vinge book in that it is full of interesting concepts and characters, but the first seventy five percent of this chewy, nutritious meal of a book requires that the reader literally slog through boredom and or apathy for most of the buildup to the end. I found myself often exiting my Kindle app to check Facebook or Twitter through the first half of the book because I felt so under stimulated. That said, there is a whirlwind of twists and fruition of plans that will keep you glued to the last quarter of the book. I also like the way the author gives enough closure at the ends of his stories, but never totally explains or resolves some problems, nor does he give you so much closure that you stop wanting a little more story. I would personally recommend reading this story before A Fire Upon the Deep, as it is chronologically first in the Zones of Thought universe and helps create a better understanding of a few characters in the other books in the series.

This is probably one of the greatest plotted novels in all of science fiction, even of fiction in general. Only the author could bring humanity to spiders on a far away world. The book is gripping from beginning to end, spanning thousands of years in narrative. There are dozens of threads going on throughout the book and the author manages to keep them all clear and progressing to a very satisfying conclusion. If you have not read this book, you are missing out on the best science fiction has to offer, and one hell of an author. I do recommend reading the first book in this series first. While it is not necessary from a plot angle, as the two stories take part thousands of years away from each other, one of the characters sort of in both is more appreciated if encountered in the first book first. The character is one of the best ever in science fiction and I will not say who it is.

I have had this book in my collection since it was first published, but only got around to reading it now. As all science fiction is really a fun house mirror on the time in which it was written, it is particularly interesting. The technology of this far future civilization illuminates what we thought about about the Failed Dreams just a few years ago compared to the present. The artificial intelligence seemed much more remote then, and the idea of focused autistic slaves a more workable, if grotesque, way to bridge human thought with straight computation. I also love how the alien race of Spiders is shown to us through a sepia lens of mapping them to our own twentieth century, and then that lens explained in the course of the book to be more than just narrative device. Beyond that lens, we realize the Spiders really are alien, but not so much that they can not be understood.

Some people may consider this somewhat dated science fiction. I read it years ago from the library and recently bought it for my Kindle to read again. I put off the purchase for many months because of some of the negative reviews thinking that perhaps my memory had failed me and I was just being nostalgic. Also, the price is a little high for an older book in my opinion. However, after several pretty below average selections from Amazon I decided to give it a try. For me, the fifty one year old science fiction fan, it was as good as the first time. This is at least on my top book list and it is long and maybe slow at some points but I still think it is fantastic.

While I really enjoyed a Fire Upon the Deep, A Deepness in the Sky was even better. If you love the likes of the Hyperion and Dune series, do not hesitate. I am kind of picky and actually did not even find the Foundation series to be that engrossing and that is considered to be one of the greats of science fiction. If you are new to science fiction, this is a great place to start as well. I came to know and care for the characters and envision their world and back stories. By the end I was so anxious to find out what was going to happen yet did not want it to end. The author has created an alien species, completely foreign to us, and made them accessible, understandable and even lovable. Five stars and I sure hope the next book I read is as good as this one was.

This book is a prequel to the book, A Fire Upon The Deep and this book really dose not matter which order you read them in, but the two stories do relate. Taken together, they are probably the two best science fiction books I have ever read. I am a very discerning reader, and I mainly read non fiction or classics. I love a great science fiction book, but the fact that the science fiction out there is awful. They either are filled with wooden and cliche characters, or the science in them is ludicrous for any one who has taken ninth grade physics. The books of this author have compelling stories, unique and fully formed characters, and, being a scientist himself, most of the science in the book is actually pretty interesting futurist speculation.

This is an absolutely amazing book and it won the Hugo, the Campbell, and the Prometheus awards, and deservedly so. The author uses three narrative lines, human, alien, and flashback, so deftly that you really do need the information from each in order to move the others forward. Most significantly, each line is completely absorbing and you want to find out what happens next. This is also one of the most fully realized alien civilizations I have read and I am a big fan of the works of this author. These are not humans masquerading as aliens and these are people with completely unique motivations and outlooks. And yet they still come across as compelling characters, for whom the reader develops a great deal of empathy. At almost eight hundred pages, though, not a dozen of which could usefully be cut, there is a lot happening in this book that it is dense, the story arcs are long, and it requires an extended period of concentration to really enjoy it. Stay with it, though, because this is an exceptional book and you really do no want to miss how it ends.

I mostly want to respond to one reviewer who said, the spiders are so anthropomorphic as to be embarrassing. This reader seemed to have not read carefully and the presentation of the spiders is set up as a translation. The author is presenting a new approach to the classic translators problem and do you translate literally or do you translate in a way that makes your audience get the feel but in the they can relate to. The author uses the latter approach with the alien species, for example, the spiders are presented as going down a spiral staircase, because what they are walking down is their equivalent of what for humans would be a spiral staircase, so for humans to feel what the spiders felt toward it, it is presented that way. The author gives us a couple of glimpses of the spiders that are not through the translators glasses. There it is clear that the spiders are not the least anthropomorphic.

This book was a pleasure to read and the author does an outstanding job of lacing his story with familiar science fiction tropes to draw you in, but as soon as you think you know what is going on he twists things in a way that leaves you in awe. I will not go into details so as to avoid spoiling anything, but there was a moment near the end of this book more beautiful than anything I have experienced in years.