#112. The Siege of Krishnapur (Empire Trilogy)
#J.G. Farrell
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Siege-Krishnapur-Empire-Trilogy/dp/159017092X/ref=sr_1_84?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656927&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-84

I am surprised by how many great reviews this book has. I found it to be excruciatingly slow moving. The story and the characters never grabbed me. There was no one I cared enough about to make me want to continue reading. I got through about eighty percent of the story and then just started skimming to the end. As for the humor that was mentioned in previous reviews, it was much too subtle for me to enjoy. On the positive side, it did educate me a bit on Indian British history. While I felt the book was worth a try, I would not recommend it to others and there are certainly enough other reviews that do.

This book was very slow giving the what happened with the siege and what after the siege and more than enough before to understand the why. It was educational from the standpoint of seeing how governments or organizations can go into other countries and think that by dismissing the if the native cultural works, immediately think that their way should be welcomed and make life better. It seems humans never learn from history but actually think they are doing it differently and better. Since time began we are still trying to have power and wealth and the cost of others.

Set in India during the days of the British East India Company, before British Government control, residents find themselves in retreat before a Sepoy mutiny. Holed up on the compound and in the official residence the cast of caricatures have to push themselves beyond their normal boundaries. The book is in four parts including part one establishes the cast and part two starts the fighting. It is an easy read but by part three and four you may feel like let us get to the conclusion. Excellent use of language, sins like a hydra, cut one off.

The historical information and detail was interesting, but I found myself putting this book down often. I would pick it up again, but it was not riveting. That said, if you enjoy a sardonic style, you will enjoy this. Some of the descriptions of the people and activities are very humorous. The author uses sarcasm to poke fun at the colonial British. The story is fiction based on a conglomeration of historical events. The actual siege described takes place in a fictional town. I think that I would have enjoyed it more if it had been based on a true event.

What happened to the Indians, granted the novel is written in a dated genre like the Victoria imperial adventures. Nevertheless, I do not think it is too much to ask for the author to present this time in history from the point of view of an Indian. If the defense against this criticism is that this type of emphatic point of view never appears in Victoria imperial fiction then this very lacunae surely merits an explanation by way of a preface or afterword to the novel.

I really tried to like this book, read a number of reviews which led me to believe that I would really enjoy it. The topic itself was appealing, British colonials under siege in India, supplies dipping dangerously low, no help appearing. In reality, I found the first part of the book rather boring, introducing numerous people, intimating that trouble was soon to arrive, which of course we could guess from the the title of this book. Gave up seventy percent into the book and I found none of the characters to be sympathetic. In fact, after I had put down the book and come back to it later, I would find that I had forgotten who the characters were. When I realized that I did not care which characters lived or died, I decided it was time to put down the book for good.

I really liked the different take this book gave of British colonialism in India. The colonists were not represented as the saintly, benevolent saviors of the savage native nor were they represented as evil oppressors. The colonists were just in well intention, but clueless, bumbling idiots. I did find the very dry, dark humor pleasant when I was reading it, but I never thought of this story or its characters when I was not reading. I never longed for the opportunity to get back to this book. That is why this book, that in theory I should have loved, was just okay for me.

It is not you and it is me, that is the best way I can think to say my feelings on this book. It felt like a bad relationship, and I am not sure it was the books fault. Why did I keep reading until the end, I think it was reassuring that it was there. I did not really get in to the story, it felt a bit like it was written by someone with an attention disorder. It seemed to jump around a lot, but that could have just been me. It seemed to make a bit more sense to me when I read the afterwords, this was a blending of several different accounts of a similar siege. This was not a bad book, it just was not for me.

I thought this would be a serious story and the title sure sounds like it. It was actually quite comical, but amusing. Mixed with the pain and suffering, this story became a confusing mess. At times it dragged, and it may be too long. This book is helpful to have read some of the numerous prize winning books about India. Overall, I enjoyed this book and it is one of the better ones. I do not rate a four star, but I would give only a bit less.

While a great deal of the novel is well written and indeed stunning in its imagery and use of language, a great deal of it is not. There is much plodding, pedestrian verbiage larded heavily with cliches, and incidents that are wildly improbable to say the least. The author has added a great deal of detail to the battle scenes, but I found myself many times frowning too often at miracles that could simply not be performed by such a small, beleaguered garrison. It is one thing to research warfare and write a book containing battle scenes, quite another to experience war before picking up your pen.