#113. Rainbows End: A Novel with One Foot in the Future
#Vernor Vinge
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Rainbows-End-Novel-Foot-Future/dp/0812536363/ref=sr_1_85?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656927&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-85

Being a forty year old in college and seeing all of the young college folks obsessing over smart phones and apps, I can totally emphasize with the two middle aged protagonists. Although Robert was a drama queen has been poet who thrives off of negative energy and Vaz is an old spook conspiring against the whole of global society with his own agenda, this book definitely allowed me to take part and visualize the strange worlds created by the Augmented Reality and tech suits of the new era. However, this book does a good job at emphasizing the fact that no matter who technologically savvy we get as humans we still have to contend with the human condition.

I have read some reviews stating that this is not one of his best works. I disagree with that assessment and it is certainly different but I think it is very much one of his best works. The near future is so well rendered and the characters are believable. The cloak and dagger elements are fun and he is at his most clever in some ways. I only wish the author would do a sequel. I love his other works and he is truly a visionary. This work stands on its own as a unique work in the authors catalog. If you are a fan of well written science fiction this is a must read.

I really enjoyed reading this book. Its predictions around tablets and augmented reality that succeed them are spot on. Other interesting ones are around the world geopolitical alliances and the future work force. The only problem with the book is that it seems unfinished and it sounds like the author forgot to write the last chapter. For instance, the rabbit character was way more interesting than the shallow and predictable Robert. The failure to act or close on the rabbit makes the story incomplete.

I am a big fan of the work of Vinge, so I looked forward to this book with some excitement. My first impression is that Amazon is incorrect in calling this a Zones Of Thought book, as it does not seem to belong to the same universe of A Fire Upon the Deep and A Deepness In The Sky. While the main characters are interesting, most of the plot seems exist for the sole purpose of exploring computer technology a little more than twenty years from now. Do not get me wrong, the technology and world that the author shows in the near future is quite interesting and real, and makes it worth reading the novel just for itself. The story is good, but not great like you can find in some of other works of the author. In the last third of the book, the author launches into a parallel story line that I think detracts from his overall narrative. A good book, but if you are interested in this author and have not read his stuff, I would steer you toward his other works before you pick up this one.

I have been an avid science fiction reader since I discovered the masters in the late 1950. I grew up on Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein, Bradbury, and all the others and moved on into Ellison and speculative guys in the sixties and seventies and then through Gibson and the hard science of Gregory but I had not crossed paths with this author except on very rare occasions. The future cultural settings remind me a lot of William Gibson and Neal Stephenson. The author is fairly conversant in computers and networking and really just takes virtual reality one technological step further. The world he constructs, I think, may be our future. The characters, for the most part, have some depth and the artificial intelligence that develops might exhibit some of the characteristics he imbues it with. The most compelling part of the novel is the projected cure for disease. The author delves into some interesting concepts here as in what it would feel like to have descended into dementia and returned at a later time with your mind functional again but to a society that has moved passed where you were. This book is the one definitely worth a read.

Lots of fun and several characters that you grow to care about, some mysteriously strange, some sinister and some confused. Excellent meshing of technology against the human condition. A different view on a war on terror, but avoids bringing religion in as a motivation. Shows a world where cooperation can be mediated by technology at multiple scales, between governments, between corporations, or between people across all kinds of boundaries, age, mental ability, geographic, or economic. This book shows potential power of crowd sourcing and human augmentation and it is mainly a good read.

I think this author has actually gotten better with this book. The previous book is about science and technology in the future. The future of the internet and medicine is treated in fascinating detail. Also, characterization, which is sometimes the weakness seen in hardcore, is very satisfying. The people and their interactions have depth. As is usual in the hardcore tradition, this book is basically optimistic and libertarian. But there is enough of a dark, threatening, side to technology to interest the intelligent reader. This is a singularity novel, but you can see it from here and I think it is the best book of this author.

This author has been speculating usefully about the possibilities of cyberspace longer than anyone. His old works inspired a generation of early net heads to build the possibility of whole human lives online. This new book builds on what Wikipedia, Google, and eBay have wrought and projects those mass cognitive tools forward twenty years. The world that emerges is one where net driven virtual reality dominates everything. The details of depiction given by this author reward close study, for invention as well as entertainment. It is a light hearted book, more cyber picaresque than cyber punk, with sly satire of contemporary shibboleths laced throughout. I saw the book early because a certain journal asked me to review it, which I will do in five star mode.

A story of a world which questions most things we take for granted and most of all, questions what it means to be human in an age of technology and information. It is a book about reinvention and I really enjoyed the range of wonderful characters that struggle to fit in but succeed to establish human connections even if just through technology. What happens when everything around you changes and do you take the leap too or do you stay the same.

This book is near future masterpiece of world building. No other author has though as hard or as long about the problem of writing technically realistic novels of the near future, and the author displays the fruits of that labor admirably in the world presented in the book. Sadly, the author himself suggests that the effort of doing this kind of writing is so great that a repeat effort is unlikely. As this book ages out it might become the last really good singularity vision in a world where the bar for such achievements grows higher by the day and the ambition of authors continues to fall short. If you are intrigued by a vision of the world in twenty years, I recommend this book as an entertaining story set in a carefully constructed near future.