#114. Feed (Newsflesh, Book 1)
#Mira Grant
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Feed-Newsflesh-Book-Mira-Grant/product-reviews/0316081051/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=2

The book for me was good but, not that good and for me this really is not a zombie book though it is interesting how the book is set years later and we see how they dealt with the uprising. I thought the book dragged and was quite boring sometimes since there was too much techno babble on every page. It was quite challenging to keep leafing through it. I must admit, if you skim you will not miss much. Georgia, the female lead, did you know she has an eye ailment, well you will after the hundredth time your told. What did I like, actually the blogs at the end of each chapter were very interesting and thoughtful. Maybe the whole book should have been that way. In terms of the end, very refreshing to be thrown a curve ball like that. I am sorry, I just can not read the sequels. I notice the second book is also over six hundred pages and I do not want to skim to get to the point.

Overall this was a good read, being a fan of horror fiction and a writer of zombie fiction I would not define this book so much a Zombie novel as a survivalist novel with high political overtones. My biggest problem with the book is that the world the novel was set in seemed to often become an after thought. And even though the political drama was very interesting, it seemed to always be competing with the other story lines. Even the blog entries started out very strong and then seemed to die away such that they became lost in the fray. I wanted to like this book much more but it started out brilliantly and, as the political turmoil seemed to settle in for the ride, the brilliance seemed to fade away. I will say though, if you are looking for a zombie story that pulls all the gore punches and goes so far as allow the very existence of the undead to be an afterthought, this book might be the book for you. It has good characters, the writing is strong, and adds the bonus of political intrigue.

It is a really fun romp through the ideas of a post zombie modern world but you have to slog through a two dimensional main character and random rampant sexism so the author can create the most obnoxious not like those girls fantasy. I guess it says something about how compelling it is that I finished it but there are not enough characters to really hold water as a whodunit crime story that it sort of tries to do and I will definitely be avoiding anything else by this author.

I think the story was fairly interesting and I liked her world building. What I did not care for were her characters, they are pretty much all very flat. There is basically no difference between any of the characters, they are all one dimensional with no depth. The main characters are basically the exact same character, they are sarcastic know it all, typical twenty year old disaffected siblings. There is no discernible difference between the two, most of the characters are like that, not enough variety in the characters. I kind of struggled through the book, I would read for twenty minutes, get bored and do something else.

I thought the idea was good and, generally, it was a good plot and interesting but the characters dialogue and general demeanor was way too cool and trite. Maybe the book was aimed at the other market. There is a lot of repetition about blood tests, sensitive eyes etc that could have been omitted. The relationship between the main two characters, brother and sister, was a bit weird and never really explained or explored. I did not dislike the book, but found the issues above detracted from it.

When I started reading this book, I was very engaged. The brother and sister racing away from a zombie controlled city. After this though, the book seemed to drag and stall. The brother and sister are bloggers and the sister, Georgia, reports only the news with no flare at all. She seems through out the book emotionless with not much character depth. Georgia reminds me of Kristen Stewart in Twilight and you know that constant scowl she has. The brother, Shawn, basically provokes zombies with sticks to get ratings on their site. These two with a few other characters follow a presidential race in this zombie era. With all this excitement, attempted assassinations, and murders you would think this would be a book you just could not put down, unfortunately, it is not. Some of the phrases are constantly repeated and you can almost get a feeling for what the characters will say before they say it. As of this review, I have had the book over a month and I am still not through with it. I read a chapter here and there simply out of boredom.

An interesting concept dragged down by horrible writing and even worse editing. The lengthy tome is packed with rambling run on, cliched dialogue, repetitive phrasing and character who lack any real depth or maturity. The story is narrated by Georgia George Mason, who I was stunned to realize is a twenty something young woman, because she reads like a precocious thirteen year old. The lack of zombies does not bother me, but the bloated, repetitive prose does. This is a book that definitely did not live up to the hype.

I did not find this book that gripping and actually the political and blogging stuff was a bit boring to me. Maybe I just do not like zombies enough. I would have awarded it only two stars but the author does something pretty ballsy with the ending and I think she pulls it off. So I am adding a third star to reward her bravery and will I read the next book.

This book was only moderately about zombie and that would be fine, provided that the plot was interesting and engaging, which it was not. The author spent an inordinate amount of time focused on blogging, bloggers, journalists, journalism that I was frankly bored. The action that did occur was too little and too late. Shame on me for not reading the reviews before buying the book.

Positive points for well thought out details on how the virus developed. The story is one I would usually have found very happy interesting, but this book made it boring. I kept trying to figure out why is was so boring. I do not have enough of the craft of writing myself to figure it out. The plot is fine and perhaps it is the shallowness of the characters that they are like outlines of characters rather than fully developed. Instead of learning more about each character through his or her actions and words, we are told the same few characteristics over and over and over. The writing does not have the depth and nuance of much more substantial post apocalyptic books such as Station Eleven, a truly beautiful book, or Zone One. All I was hoping for from this book was a page turner to get me through the physical discomfort of airport waiting areas and cramped airplane seating, but it is not a page turner.