#118. Never Judge a Lady by Her Cover: The Fourth Rule of Scoundrels (Rules of Scoundrels)
#Sarah MacLean
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Never-Judge-Lady-Her-Cover/dp/0062068512/ref=sr_1_101?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656997&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-101

I really, really wanted to love this story, after the previous three book, I waited patiently for the story of Chase to be revealed. While I admired the desire of Georgina or Chase or Anna to prove to not only herself but the ton that she was worth more than they thought of her simply because she was ruined, I could not help but feel that she was selfish and a bit vain. I had high hopes for her being quite a bit of a rogue per say or at least truly embracing her devil may care attitude but it just did not hold true. Granted one would have to be that way in order to ruthlessly build her empire but something just seemed off and I was also a bit disappointed in West. For someone who was so blase about his gossip rags making money from the troubles and tales of the ton, he was quite a bit of an ass. I guess his holier attitude just did not sit with me. Aside from a bit of repetitiveness and overused phrases, it was a good solid book and a close to the story line that we have been reading for quite some time. I will continue to read books of this series as she is a great writer.

Sexy and fun although the big reveal to the reader about the identity of Chase did not really live up to the build up from the previous books. And I could never figure out why the brother of heroine, a Duke, would bankroll the gaming hell of his sister. That made no sense at all to me and strained belief enough for me not to love this story as much as I expected to. That being said, the author is one of the shining stars of the genre and she can not write a bad book, so I am looking forward to her next book.

I had been looking forward to the final book for the series about Chase. Good story line with abundant background on how and why she became what she was, but over and over again becomes repetitive. Also, too much she thought or he thought and what she thought about what he might think, what he thought about what he thought she might think, and would do better with more emphasis and action in the present.

This story was not bad, though I enjoyed the first three in this series more. The most frustrating part of this is book is that I felt that the female main character took on too much guilt and blame over withholding secrets. She knew he had secrets of his own yet still seemed to put most of the fault on herself. The male lead also seemed to put more blame on her as well for not sharing her secrets even though he had his own and it felt very one sided. In the end it finally seems to dawn on them, but it should not have taken the whole book to come to that realization when they both knew the other was hiding something.

I do not know that the author will ever top Nine Rules to Break When Romancing a Rake but she certainly did not with this book. After the book of Temple, which I did not care for at all, I was not sure if I would bother with Never Judge a Lady by Her Cover. If it had not been Thanksgiving weekend, and if I had not an afternoon free and if the books I am waiting for were not out until December, I just do not know if I would have picked this up. I was never terribly invested in this series. But, it was Thanksgiving weekend, and I did have an afternoon free, so I got it. I liked Georgiana and it was interesting to find out what ever happened to the Duke of the sister of Leighton, and I liked Duncan. But the story was so predictable and so repetitive. Seriously, Georgiana would have a conversation about something with Temple, then repeat the whole thing with Duncan, or any number of the other male characters. I think it would have been way cooler if the female characters of the series had been more involved, but they were not.

First of all, it is a story told, not showed, so poorly written that it is difficult to finish this last book in the series, in particular. The repetitiveness is mind boggling seems like an overbearing, jealous nut. There are many times when I am not sure whose talking and others when the author probably made changes to dialogue but did not correct the whole scene or point of view. The character is not convincingly strong or adept enough to pull off what the author gives her credit for. The author also sets up background info with no historical relevance to help the reader buy into the story. We are supposed to believe the brother of heroine gave her loads of money to start an exclusive gaming hell gambling, nightly fist fight, from earlier story and with prostitutes in England and there is no explanation of how that came about. But it was repeated multiple times, so I guess it is supposed to be believable. It is too bad as this is a unique series with potentially good characters and Pipa is the best.

First off I absolutely adore this writer, not only the stories well formed and intertwined, but the author is just hilariously awesome to her fans and entertaining. That said, I have to admit that I am really disappointed with this book. Perhaps all of these months of waiting managed to build my expectations too high that I had imagined Chase to be brilliant. Second to none and ruthless, but in this book she strikes me as a whiny petulant child with a vindictive streak. I adored the tie ins between other books and this one along with subtle nod to issues in modern culture. That on its own made it interesting enough to keep reading. Unfortunately the sexual tension between Gorgianna and West felt tedious and dull. I ended up skipping much of their interludes. In a weird way I was almost hoping she would choose Langly since he did not appear to be an overly possessive douche who was not actually listening to a thing the heroine said and Alas twas not to be. Overall, the random praise is that the description of pool was spot on.

When I read A Rogue by Any Other Name, I was ready to buy this whole series. I would never read a romance with such a suspenseful plot before and I was captivated. The story was great as well and I loved Philippa. I did not read the third one because of reviews but I was excited about this one. However, I was completely disappointed because I did not care about the story, all I could notice was the overuse of repetition, hype, and short, dramatic sentences to build suspense. The author really needs an editor to clean out all that and make her pull the laces tighter to build a better story. The internal dialogue kills the actual dialogue because it is confusing and annoying. The sex scenes are all the same in every book and in this case, the actions of heroine do not live up to the hype that she is so powerful.

I am sure I will get some boos for this, but I just could not get into this book. As soon as I realized that Georgina, from the previous series was Chase, that was pretty much it for me. I was extremely disappointed that Chase built this empire and commanded so much respect but started as a twenty year old sheltered daughter of a duke and the brother of Chase is the one who helped her, Simon of all people, someone from the streets who grew up in a certain lifestyle, a sheltered young girl, not really. Having a daughter out of wedlock in that time period does not mean that you help create one of the largest and best known gambling halls. I just could not buy into it and I was so disappointed. I was really looking forward to this and guess I am just disappointed it was not what I was expecting and not something I could buy in to.

I am so surprised by the good reviews that I am writing a rare review of my own. I am listening to this book while walking and that usually motivates me to both walk and look forward to the book. So little happens in this book that I keep fast forwarding it. The two main characters have long conversations about how they can not be honest with each other despite their attraction to each other and need for each other. There is also a lot of things that beyond belief. The one that bothers me the most is that both have amazing power over London and both are too young to have accomplished this. Making them a more seasoned age would have helped.