#119. Ride Steady (Chaos)
#Kristen Ashley
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Ride-Steady-Chaos-Kristen-Ashley/product-reviews/145553322X/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

Joker had such a crush on Carissa all through high school. He also had such a horrible home life growing up. When he see Carissa stranded with her hill he stops to help her. Carissa does not recognize him but still feels a strong pull to him and she seeks him out. Joker tries to push her away but his attraction to her puts him over the edge. The former husband of Carissa puts himself in the middle and tries to win her back. The chemistry between these is explosive. I love how he takes care of Carissa and her son. The way they become a family is so heartwarming. Joker found his family in chaos and they are a club that makes him feel a sense of belonging. All of these books are so are great stories and I loved each one.

Short bulb goes like this and Carson Steele is getting out. His life is crap thanks to his Dad Jefferson Steele. He beats him, scars him and everything else in between. Carissa gave Carson light but did not know it. He has always been in love with her and is grateful she was the last person he saw before heading out and getting out. Leaving would be the biggest mistake of his life. Returning after all these years and finding Chaos would be the best until Carissa. She is still in town and life has not been good to her. I will not write anymore, it is all there that everything in brilliant Kristen Ashley fashion. One of the biggest draws to her stories besides the obvious are the female characters. I love the fact that her women are curvy, strong but gentle, devoted and driven. Of course in some of the story lines those woman have had to crawl their way out of the dark and find their confidence but it was always with the love and complete devotion of a great man, a man who would stop at nothing to show her all her worth. The fact that she writes female lead characters who are not stick figures with size zero waist is not lost on her fans. Although its fiction it gives women the push needed to get out there and be whatever they want to be knowing they are magnificent. Thank you for another spectacular Chaos novel. The even better news is that there is more to come. We get a preview of Walk Through Fire and of course it is going to be fantastic.

Or equal first with Shy and Tabby that the author brings us two characters but she makes them seem so real with real life hardships and realistic human behaviors. Meaning, you will not find major misunderstandings that resolve at the end, no disrespect between the characters, no epiphanies followed by sudden resolved conflicts, and no push and pull drama. Just plain life happening and finding your one true love. The story was not rushed and I was able to spend time with the characters. I found myself having to close my Kindle several times while reading so that I can internalize what I just read. That is how powerful this read was for me. I can not wait for he next installment. Ride Steady will the our fourth book in the Chaos series. It is not necessary to read in order, but because there are steady couples from previous books and a turf war in the background, it may be easier to read in order for the sake of chronology, but again, not necessary. There are also cameos from characters in other series, which I have not read and I still manage to keep up and not feel as if I am missing out. I imagine the same would have been applied if I would have read the series in order from the beginning.

Typical of all of books of this author, this one told another over the top story about Carrie and Carson. There were a lot of different elements in this story, from second chance at love to good versus evil. And all of it written in the particular style of this author. It was a good, emotional read. I enjoyed watching as logical Carson or Joker evolved, allowing himself to leave his stoicism behind and welcome the love from everyone around him. And it was especially enjoyable reading about a community coming together to support a troubled mother. If only our society did that with all women who need it.

This has been my favorite of the Chaos series. Something about Joker and Carissa just drew me in and fell in love, to the point I always smiled when I read the rest of the series and Joker was mentioned. These two were just it for each other. Longtime love since high school and neither of them knew. I think it really holds the relationship that they knew each of each other before and loved each other then and now with there new personas. This is like a fairy tale love set in modern day.

I am not sure where to begin with, since there are so many amazing characters and beautiful thoughts in this book. Carson Joker Steele is a man every woman deserves to know. The struggle of this mans life is so hard to read, but at the same time there are a handful of people that pull him into their family as a child that makes this story so breath taking. To watch this man figure out who he is is a journey that everyone should read. Chaos is the family that you wish you had the way women should be with each other having each other back. The way the men of Chaos take Joker in, support him, love him, and become his family, and help him in the process of realizing he too deserves amazing things in life.

This was my another book of this author and I am still a huge fan. For all the hummers, she has a formula and a writing style, but it works. I love the short sentence writing style she gives her men, and I love that she gives us time to get to know them before drama begins. This one ranked up there with Lee and Hawk for me, it was a very engaging read from cover to cover. I will admit there is usually a point in her stories where I can put it down walk a away and think ugh to I really feel like getting back into it, they are so long. This book I could not put down since it was so good. I loved how our butterfly was smart to come clean not hide things, I also loved how Joker did go rouge, but respected the men in his club and their decisions. I as always loved seeing previous characters come back into the story. I think I would have enjoyed this one even as a standalone, but it is so much better when you know the other players too, thank you for an amazing read.

Separated by a difference in social position in high school, but crushing on each other from afar, Carissa and Joker never expected to meet up years later on the side of the road because of a flat tire but Carissa did not recognize Joker, and what could have been their second chance was delayed. I absolutely loved this book. Joker started out really frustrating, but once he got on track he was so steady it was beautiful. I loved that Carissa went straight to Joker each time she messed up and confessed immediately so they could work through it together, instead of letting things fester into something much worse. Great story of a man from an abusive background looking to build a better life than the one he had as a child and a single mother with an evil rich former lover. This story included appearances by the full Dream Man crew and I look forward to reading other story in Walk Through Fire, due out in October, and hope to see the story of Snapper out soon.

This is my second book of this author, needless to say I am going back to the beginning. This is a stand alone story but characters appear who are from previous books and series. I find it more fulfilling to know the background so I will be catching up. I have struggled to find good authors to follow but now have lucked upon this one. You get the hot, sexy Alpha biker but this one had a heck of a childhood. Now he is back in town, doing a good deed, changing a flat on the interstate during rush hour, begins a tale of redemption and love so heart wrenching. Carissa married the high school quarterback, rich boy cum lawyer but now they are divorced and he has taken nearly everything. Broke down on the highway with a baby is not a place she needed to be. When a long haired, scruffy bearded, hot biker rolls up and offers to help she accepts because beggars can not be choosers and no one in the last hour has even slowed down. But there is something about Joker that strikes a chord.

I was not sure before reading this since we did not get to know Joker much from the other books but it was amazing. Joker is now in the top five of my favorite alpha after other characters. My favorite moments were whenever Joker interacted with Travis, the son of Carissa. It was just so sweet how they had this connection from the start and almost whenever Travis was near Joker would hold him. I really liked Carissa as well in that whenever she did something that Joker might disapprove of or told her not to do she did not hide it, or lie or wait for him to hear it from someone else. She was upfront with him about it and they dealt with it together. I also loved how we got the point of view of Joker too and also some of Tack. I loved all the Tack and Tyra we got in this book, it was so nice reading more about them years after their explosion. If you liked any of the other books in the series, I definitely recommend this book. And if you have not read any in the series, or have not read any books of this author, I recommend this but also recommend reading the other books in the series in order starting.