#120. Marrow
#Tarryn Fisher
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Marrow-Tarryn-Fisher/dp/1511682760/ref=sr_1_107?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656997&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-107

I have mixed feelings about this book, on one hand, I like the idea surrounding this book and the reason why it was written in the first place. The writing style is just as good, however, I felt lost, confused, and a little let down that some of my questions went unanswered. The story does not end in a cliffhanger, but you will just have to read it yourself to determine if questions where answered or not. Overall, this book is a good book about a sad and lonely girl who is consumed by the world she lives in. This is not a love story, this is not a story where the ending will leave you feeling happy and satisfied. This is a dark story about revenge. It is a story about a girl who lives her life based on the circumstances in which she was brought up in. It is a story of a girl who turns into a woman who may or may not be delusional. But it is also a story about seeking revenge for the innocents who have been wronged in life. It is not an easy book to read and it is graphic, sad and twisted, not in a way that will make you cry, but in a way that you will feel for the injustice bestowed upon the people.

I am a huge fan of this author and I have read and loved every book she has written. The author is an automatic one click for me. This book has been sitting in my kindle since it was released and I should have left it there. It was pretty good in the beginning and then it drug on some in the middle but was still pretty good. Then at about eighty percent or so , it took a opposite degree turn. It was as if the author stopped writing and a total stranger took over abruptly, then it just did not make sense and then was just rushed to be done. This book is just bad, so do not waste your money.

I got into this book really quickly and I thought this is going to be so good but midway through I started to get this nagging suspicion that it was going to be a let down. That nagging suspicion was right and I do not know if I got a corrupted copy or what, but I do not understand where this book went. I am still scratching my head over the whole Judah thing. I kept checking to see if I missed an entire chapter, I was so confused. It felt like I was reading a different novel and not only that, but I felt like Margo actually became less developed as the story went on. She just became so one dimensional, maybe that was the point to show how bad experiences change people. The first half of the book was great, the rest not so much. I really wanted to give it two and half stars since that is exactly the way I feel about it.

What I am not sure is if I was supposed to feel like I was losing my mind while reading this book, but I definitely do. There were so many things that were said, and then changed throughout the story that I am not sure if they were mistakes in the writing or if it was supposed to be written like that to leave you guessing what is real and what is not. I can not decide if the author was just rushing while writing this and did not realize her mistakes or of she is just an evil genius trying to make her readers feel as though they lost it. There were times when she had said a certain amount of months had gone by but then the next chapter it was not that long at all. Or it was written as if years have gone by but then the book is still playing with keys in a playpen. My husband asked why I had such a strange look on my face. I had to explain to him that I am almost done with a book, that I have been trying really hard to get into but I can not, but I also can not stop reading because it is such a messed up story that I have to see how it ends. He asked why I could not just skip to the end and now that I finished, I can honestly say that I could have just skipped to the end and I would have been just as confused and filled with feelings. So the author either congrats on succeeding in your evil genius plan to make me feel like I have lost it or slow down next time when you write and make a less confusing story. I honestly do not know what you were going for.

I have only read one other book of this author and that left my heart in a millions pieces, totally loved it and changed so much for me personally. I started the book completely aware it was going to be different from other works of this author and though the story was interesting and certainly started off well, I just could not connect with the character. Reading about her transformation, her need for love, her thirst for justice was great but there were just certain moments that left me feeling some scenes were just too overly dramatic, such as the neck and knuckle cracking. Loved the tie in to other books of this author, note I suggest you read other books of this author first to truly appreciate those chapters. Certainly, had a few triggers and some scenes were hard to read but certainly a book worth picking up and trying out. There is also that huge plot twist which I think added another element that I just could not connect with as it left everything feeling unresolved.

I read reviews on this book and decided to try something different. I was not ready for this story yet I am not one to start a book and not finish it. I gave it three stars and I was wanting to hit two but I did not for that fact that the author had a heavy heart for people that are hurt in the hands of another human. If you want a different read and some weird read this might just be for you. This story is not the one I will recommend or read again and I am sorry that it just did not work for me.

This was my first read from this author, most likely my last. When I read the blurb, I thought this sounds like a very interesting, dark read. I like dark reads, however, this was one of the most depressing books I have ever read in my life. I would have given one star but the author did have a great way with descriptiveness that kept me going on. However, this book jumped all over the place and I did not feel a good flow in the story at all. I felt after finishing the book I am not sure who was real and who was not. I like books that come to a conclusion and I do not want to have to draw my own and with this book, I am still not sure what I read. I did not feel a connection to any of the characters. I would recommend this book to anyone either.

I heard about the author before and everyone raves about how amazing her books are. I felt like this book had a very slow start and I kept waiting for it to pick up. It did pick up a little bit, but I still contemplated putting it down and labeling it as disappointing several times throughout the book. This was a very twisty and dark read and I felt like it was quite unique and I still have questions about the character. There are many people who will absolutely love this book, but it is not for me. I still think I will give some of other books of this author a chance because their blurbs have caught my attention.

I find it difficult to rate this book since it was so dark and so messed up in many places. It was written pretty well but there were some editing mistakes and some time line mistakes and some general inconsistencies. I walked away from this book appreciating the story and the ways it coincided with other books but overall shaking my head at how utterly messed up it was, so this is my reasoning for a middle of the road three star review. I do not feel like I can recommend this book or dissuade anyone from reading it.

So you are probably asking yourself why I only gave it three and half stars, I had to ask myself the same question and the answer was not easy to find. Because objectively, this book is awesome and the author did it all really well. At the end, I think it just as not for me. Part of the reason was the all consuming sadness, depression and hopelessness that wove throughout the whole story like a spiderweb you can not escape and there was too much for me. The little, tiny sliver of hope that the story offered, might or might not have been real, which just pissed me off. I do not need the happy go lucky book or a happy ending, but this one was just too much. It left me emotionally and mentally drained, but not in the same way other dark reads did that.