#125. The Finkler Question
#Howard Jacobson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Finkler-Question-Howard-Jacobson/dp/1608196119/ref=sr_1_123?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-123

This book is a very sad and funny depiction of a conundrum that people face. Some people have no idea who they are and do not know what to do with themselves. They enjoy freedom, but do not know how to interact with others in a meaningful way. Others have a very strong identity that frames their response to the human condition and gives them a medium by which they can connect with others. And while this is a blessing, this identity comes with historical baggage that can at times, prove lethal or at least a threat to their ability to flourish.

The book is extremely well written and this talented author has tackled two subplots with skill and humor. The women in this book assume a more peripheral role in the lives of the characters but they are still essential to the story even though two of them are no longer present by the time the book unfolds. I did find the book easy to read and rather fast moving and I also found the discussions quite interesting but I would not call it a prize winner. For those interested in the depth of connections between people, it is a humorous and serious treatment of the subject. It is only toward the end of the book when the true power of the bond that links the main characters is finally and fully developed.

A beautifully written, highly intelligent, funny, compelling, well paced look into life, love and a sense of belonging played out in front of the contemporary British Diaspora dilemma, support or condemnation of Israel. The author cleverly interweaves the main arguments with the protagonist quixotic search for happiness, as an end, beginning or ongoing situation. Great, well sketched characters, an engaging plot and the wry sense of humor or dramatic irony contribute to a great read.

I particularly liked the language that Howard Jacobson used in the book. I found his sense of humor to be incredible. However, it does help if you are Jewish with some background. This enhances your ability to appreciate how over the top some of his things were, especially as regards the area of circumcision. The main character is juxtaposed with two Jewish chaps that he attempts to understand as Finklers or in relationship to their particular Jewishness or lack of it. The author presents all sides of these male figures and their sexual appetites. The further you get into the novel, the more it grows on you. Just remember to think in terms of tongue and cheek as you attempt to master the craziness that transpires in the lives of the characters.

The can be simply described as trying to define what a Jewish identity means. Describing the story line and the cast of characters is more of a challenge. The writing is very good throughout and sometimes it is a laugh out loud experience. However, not all of the characters ring true and seem a little contrived as if they were brought in to make a point and then depart. My Jewish book club enjoyed our discussion of the book but were less than awed by it. It would be interesting to hear from non Jews on their reaction to the book.

Jacobson is a hilarious writer and while reading this book I may have annoyed my significant other with how often I insisted on quoting from it. I also found it interesting to read about the Jewish experience in London as opposed to in America. I can understand the complaints of other reviewers about the difficulty of living with Treslove and the imperfections of the characters and their behavior, but this is perhaps what I loved about the book. Just as we fantasize about the good life, I thoroughly enjoyed the fun of wallowing in the not so good life.

I liked the book, but it never reached any great highs for me. I have been slowly working my way through the Man Booker Prize winners list, and have enjoyed reading most of them, but this one just was a little less inspiring than the others. The views of the characters as they reflect on their own lives spoke of both their joys and regrets, which I found to be something to reflect on in my own life. It is still a well written book, and it certainly gave me some things to think about for my future.

On the whole, I enjoyed the redress of Jacobson to the liberal Jewish establishment, if they are indeed his intended audience. The problem lies simply in the confused thematic of the novel. The plot meandered aimlessly from the well advised forward glance at the logical conclusion of Diaspora Jews vilification of Israel and other tropes implicated in the subtle paradoxes of the modern Jewish experience as they are witnessed by the archetypal goy. Had the incoherence of this novel, this patently kinked trajectory, served as some greater metaphor for the vicissitudes of modern life, the novel may have maintained a measure of coherence. Alas, there is scant evidence for such lofty designs in the novel as we have it. All told, the prose itself is tight and whimsical enough to overcome the thematic shortcomings of this novel.

People never exposed to Jewish life and culture could not possibly understand this book. I was married Jewish for twnety one years and am not Jewish myself. So, though an outsider, I was still able to see formidable families whose dark humor and heavy baggage propelled them upwards and downwards simultaneously. For many years I was appalled at multiple mannerisms, conversations, traditions and contradictions in everyday Jewish life. However, as I realized I was loved, even though, and began to study both history and literature, I lightened up enough to be able to absorb the remarkable, colorful, infuriating and admirable qualities of being Jewish and, like poor Treslove, watched longingly from the outside. Throughout the book, the revelations about contemporary Jewish thinking were startling to me. There is no political correctness here and even though I fell off my chair laughing at parts, I was still forced to confront sad and frustrating realities.

The story revolves around the lives of three friends, Julian Treslove, Sam Finkler, and Libor Sevcik. I found Treslove, who fell madly in love with women all the time, an interesting but annoying character. Very passionate for sure, very much living in the moment. But at the same time, highly insecure, very self involved, and the women he fell for were kind of objects in his world rather than real people. Sam is successful and just gets on with life, while the world of Libor is his love for his wife, both Sam and Libor are widowers at the start of the book. We learn a lot about their relationships with women, which are quite different from Julian. But the central focus is Jews and the Jewish culture and approach to the world, very interesting. And there is gentle humor, a good book.