#126. The Underground Railroad: A Novel (Random House Large Print)
#Colson Whitehead
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Underground-Railroad-Novel-Random-House/dp/1524736309/ref=sr_1_127?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-127

My son told me about this book, said he had been reading but put it down due to lack of interest. Then heard it won a Pulitzer Prize so picked it up again, guessing he is still struggling to get through. Historical fiction is my favorite genre, this was historical fantasy. I was not impressed, the first turn off was the depiction of an fantastical underground railroad. The actual underground railroad was degraded by this unnecessary diversion. Many other turn offs, mostly regarding distortions of history, but overarching was the stereotypical depiction of blacks as good and whites as horrific, good whites thrown in the mix seemed insincere and weak. In this time of acute race wars a more nuanced view of history is what is most needed. I kept reading because I thought I would find something new, but it was an old tale told countless times.

I truly have no idea why this was a Pulitzer Prize winning book, it was fine. But frankly, there have been far more interesting, epic, dramatic, deeply engaging books in this genre over the years. Nothing particularly sets this apart for me, or even comes close to the connection I have felt reading other historical fictions about this time and place. Thoroughly disappointing, and I wanted to love it. Maybe I missed some fancy literary device buried in its pages, but as an average run of the mill reader, I just did not get it at all.

I am still shaking my head and trying to figure out on what criteria this book was judged the winner of both a Pulitzer prize and the National Book Award. Call me old fashioned, but I like to see things like plot, literate sentence structure, character development, accuracy in references to actual events or time lines. None of which are present in this book, I finally searched the author, with whose work I was unfamiliar, and learned he is a cartoonist. Perhaps that explains the plethora of sentences that would look better in a balloon than on a book page, and the kinds of improbable coincidences that in comic strips are heralded by cries. This volume does not join the existing pantheon of good books, fiction and nonfiction, about the Underground Railroad, in my view.

Interesting enough to keep on reading, but the characters were not developed with as much depth as I would have liked, and the actual railroad idea just seemed unnecessary and odd. To me, it would have been much more interesting for this novel to have had a realistic depiction of how the underground railroad actually worked. So, given all the positive press about this book, I was disappointed.

Had I read more reviews of this book prior to reading it, I would have understood that this book is not entirely accurate with regard to facts. The Underground Railroad is not a metaphor, but an actual railroad that transports runaway slaves to freedom. It is an interesting interpretation, but one that left me wondering about many of the other events that take place in the book. I would have appreciated a follow up from the author explaining what in his book is real and what is fictionalized. The book paints a horrifying picture of the brutality of slavery and its devastating impact on generations of families. Personally, I found the second half of the book less fluid and somewhat disjointed than the first. If you are looking for a completely accurate work of historical fiction on the topic of the Underground Railroad this is not it.

I picked this book for book club and by the looks on the faces around the table I wish I had not. I found it an uninspired, one dimensional slog through unnecessary details of cruelty. The main character and her relationships could have been so richly developed and her story made so much more nuanced. Instead, they were abruptly served as fodder for the next round of cartoonist brutality. I wanted to care about what Cora was going through because I wanted to care about Cora. The author never gave me that opportunity and I felt click baited through a grueling, half realized train ride.

There are enough changes that I am not sure what has meant to be historically accurate and what is not that makes the more gruesome details harder to sit through. And I still do not understand the purpose of setting this as alternative history. But it is a very well done illumination on the lives of black people at the time, regardless of slave or free or somewhere in between, and what they had to do to survive. I do not think I would have finished the book, or even really gotten very far in, if it were not for the book group I am in, but I am not sorry that I read it.

I think this book had a lot of hype behind it. While it was not bad by any means, I simply in my opinion did not enjoy it. To be fair to the author and to who ever reads this review, this post is the definition of the type of review you should ignore. It is completely biased to my opinion on the subject of African Americans during this time, as well as the the Jim Crow South. I personally enjoy reading more non fiction material, but realize it is important to strengthen both the left and right side of your brain, which is why i selected this fictional piece. Overall, I read We Were Eight Years In Power right after this book and it served to be much more enjoyable, again for me. The writing in this publication is sound, the material is enjoyable and the the reading seams to fly by, just not my cup of tea.

I saw all the great reviews of this book and was so looking forward to reading it and I was very disappointed. This is not historical fiction, it is just some sort of historical fantasy. It completely diminished everything that those who were part of the underground railroad went through. Its depiction of North Carolina before the Civil War was also completely inaccurate. I have read a lot of the reviews, and I actually think most of the people reading this book think it is historically factual. It is such a disturbing book in so many ways, but I could get past that if it at least tried to be historically accurate. I will say though, I loved the character Cora. I was so routing for her, so the fantasy helped with that.

I lost interest in this book about half way through. I thought this book had a mixed up style. The author tried to include commentary on slavery that I found distracting and the violence included also seemed random, and not in a good way. I thought it was cheesy in parts and, I will just go ahead and say it, Cora herself seemed boring and not all that bright, just my opinion. People describe Cora as a strong character but she was mostly tagging along with others, first Ceasar then Royal, she said it herself, I am just a passenger. Cora seemed surrounded by amazing, interesting people while she herself was just okay. Quite honestly, I also found it super strange that the author chose to portray real trains underground. So much about this book did an excellent job with very well done portal of setting and mood, only to ruin it this fantasy train thing. That is not necessary because the network was cool enough as it was. The upside is that I felt the author did an excellent job with the settings. It was easy to get a feel for how it might of been to be in many of these places.