#127. The Forever War
#Joe Haldeman
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Forever-War-Joe-Haldeman/dp/0380708213/ref=sr_1_130?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-130

I have not read science in many years, it was my passion as a teen, but I am long past that period of my life now, so I was pleasantly surprised by the writing and intellectual quality of The Forever War. It is a provocative novel that uses the Theory of Relativity to show us how much the world changes over the one hundreds of years that actually pass while the space warriors are on missions that last for months. Shifts in social and sexual mores that occur during the protagonist three combat missions are jarring for him, yet he manages to hold to his personal principles and beliefs. The parallels with Vietnam are clearly intentional, since the author fought in Vietnam, and the returning soldiers are greeted not as heroes but as oddities in a culture that has war and made peace with an enemy that had slaughtered many of the men and women friends. This novel is the kind of thoughtful science fiction that I used to love, and I am delighted to know that such books are still being written, bring on more.

It is certainly a good book and I enjoyed reading it, however, I think that it has lost something since being written. Maybe its tremendous impact on the science fiction genre is working against it when read today. Specifically, the concepts which were novel when this was written, have become science fiction tropes and standards, which since have executed with greater breadth and resolution. The length of this book also works against it in that it is hard to flush out concepts when the time line of the book is millennium and the book is less than three hundred pages. I am not sure it is fair to criticize the odd anachronistic future technology already surpassed today, but it was somewhat jarring at times. For all the criticism I have, it is absolutely a required read for any lover of science fiction. It is one of the corner stones that the modern genre is built on and an enjoyable read.

One of the finest novels to be written in the wake of the Vietnam War and probably the best military science fiction novel ever written, The forever war is one conscripted the journey of solider through space and time as he fights a mysterious enemy and is pressed further and further into a faceless military machine. The author served as an army engineer in Vietnam and based the story on the letters he wrote home to his wife. This is probably what gives the book, though abounding in page turning battles, its remarkably human touch. Forever War, written in the terse prose, is as masculine as it is tender and heartbreaking. It shows not only a gritty experience of war of a solider but also his inability to escape it upon returning home. This one deserves to be read by every self respecting science fiction fan, even ones that are not into military fiction.

William Mandella has been drafted into a war against an alien race. Not only does he worry about facing the alien race, but he also has to deal with the fact that space travel has him fighting for an Earth that he dose not even know anymore. This is truly a unique novel. I have never read anything like it, so if you are looking for something completely different I highly recommend picking this up. The isolation, despair and fear fully come through in the writing, making the reader care instantly what happens to Mandella. The only slight issue I had with the book was the choppiness of the narrative. I am assuming this is supposed to give the reader a sense of the disconnect Mandella has with others because of the time travel, but it did make it so the story felt at times incomplete.

War in space with all the time dilation to worry about and what it is like to come home during a war that seems to last forever. The individual that the story is focused on starts out as a drafted private, even though he is a College educated individual. It seems that for the purposes of fighting a ground war in an alien environment, education is considered a plus not a minus in the infantry. As time goes on, fairly little for him, but a great amount for the world he is from earth, he goes up in rank and has to deal with things that change around him. While not a deep look at the problems involved in understanding the world and his changing place in it, it is a very well written and thought provoking book. The ending is almost classic. I can not quite figure out why it is listed as the first book in the Forever War, since the ending wraps it up quite nicely.

It has been awhile since I had read classic science fiction story so since this one went on sale I picked it up. I would heard of the book but it never read it before hand I was surprised that some of the transitions that took place during the time lines. It should not be a surprise that this book is symbolically about the Vietnam War even though it takes place in the future. I found it interesting how some of the concepts of the future are actually beginning to materialize now such as the acceptance of homosexuality. I hope to read more works of this author as soon as I get through some of the others ahead of his in my library. The title is appropriate since the book covers several hundred years although it does not cover them in a drawn out manner.

The Forever War is a good book but shows its age a little. One can tell the Vietnam War, population growth and the sexual revolution of the sixties were fresh on the mind of the author. This notwithstanding, it is still a fine and engaging science fiction novel. It covers a lot of ground, spanning one the life of the man over centuries, which is both interesting but also a little frustrating. Each stop in a different era hints at interesting societal situations that go relatively unexplored as the protagonist catapults forward to the next era. A stop in a future United States so rife with violence and crime that everyone ventures out armed to the teeth never felt real to me, nor did the decision of humanity to jettison heterosexuality in order to control population. But, if you do not mind a book that raises more questions than it answers, this is an interesting use of the science fiction genre to explore topics of war and the inclination of this man towards violence.

Oldie but great, borne from his experience in Vietnam, flavored by scientific rigor, and embellished with a gifted storyteller art, this novel on conducting interstellar war without warp drive is fascinating even many years later. And the focus is on the human element, what if you had a time machine that only goes forward. And every time you get off the world has completely changed, mores, language, even sexual orientation. And you are distanced from the person you love, not by miles but by centuries. And you work with people born three hundred years after you, winner of every major science fiction award. I can strongly recommend this novel if you enjoy sf or military or just good writing.

I went into this book with very high expectations and anyone I knew who had read it said it was one of the best science fiction books they had read. The reviews were raving and the read is very quick and you can get through it in a day if you have the time and the desire. It is also a fun read, in that it is both easy and gives a little brain tease semi regularly. However, it did not live up to the very high expectations I had. I would not put it in the top books I have ever read. I still give it five stars because I really enjoyed it and I am glad I read it. And I probably would not have been so critical if I went into it blind.

This is probably one of my favorite science fiction books currently. I found myself going back and rereading the ending multiple times. I will not give anything away suffice to say that the different eras that the main character enters due to time dilation from traveling at near light speed was very interesting. The combat in the book is well written and keeps you interested. The aliens in the book truly seem alien and do not seem to be your humans in a mask kind of aliens which is quite refreshing. I definitely recommend to any lovers of science fiction or anyone looking for a decent read.