#128. American Gods
#Neil Gaiman
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/American-Gods-Neil-Gaiman/dp/0380789035/ref=sr_1_131?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-131

Interesting at the beginning but within first fifty pages I got lost, did not know which direction the story was going. The novel has some interesting chapters scattered in between the main story but I got disappointed that they turned out to be independent stories with no connection to the main story. Some of the description of the so called gods, their clothing, their looks and the dietary habits was nauseating. Because of so many rave reviews I completed the novel and the question that I had in my mind what is the point remained unanswered.

If you ever have a chance to listen to a Neil Gaiman book on audio, do it. I believe he narrates several of his audio books and he is a velvety voiced reading god. Beyond the stellar narration, the story was just so so. I started reading it last year and quickly grew bored, so I stopped. Then I decided to give it another go when I found the audio version with Gaiman reading. His voice and inflections give the story a little punch, but not enough to make up for all the elements I felt this novel lacked. This is a book that started off as a short story and was expanded into a novel, and you can tell. For me, it still sits somewhere in between a short story and a full blown novel, and I thought it could have used some more expanding and exploring of the characters, most of whom felt never fully realized. Still, the narration of Gaiman merits an extra star, and I did enjoy letting him read to me.

I realize this book was an award winner and many people enjoyed it. I liked the concept but Gaiman did not make me care enough about the characters or the coming war to draw me in. There was probably about two month gap between my reading the bulk of the book and the last few chapters. The gods are much more exciting and engaging in their legends and myths than they were in this novel.

I felt the writing was very articulate, but not too high brow. It was very readable and the main character was a likable guy, but I felt I never really knew him. The defining moment that happened prior to the book opening was never really explained. Overall I felt like there was no middle to the story. You just meandered along trying to figure things out and then it is the finale, even the finale was anti climactic. I am not really sure what happened and I could see how this might be a compelling TV show with the visuals, but it left too much to my imagination. It was well written and it flowed along fine, but I wanted more depth.

Since this is such a classic by Gaiman, I kept expecting the book to grip me and envelop me in the imagination of Gaiman. Unfortunately, that moment never quite arrived for me. While Gaiman is definitely a master of prose, and his writing reflects a fertile imagination, I never became emotionally involved with either the story or the characters. However, considering the underlying theme of the American tendencies for passing religious affiliation to various fads, perhaps Gaiman achieved his goal and offered me the atmosphere created by a world of fickle populism.

Well, the writing was excellent and there were lots of fascinating ideas and observations about life and how societies function, and there were some nice plots turns and twists, but it did require a bit of effort to continue on with the story. I struggled to care about the characters. They always seemed interesting but perhaps more chess pieces than as people I climbed inside of and saw through their eyes. But that said, I do not regret reading it and it does seem to be a worthwhile reflection on where the world is.

This is a fable like fantasy story about childhood that on the surface is very simple but it has more symbolism than I had the desire to wrap my head around. I felt like every little thing likely had a meaning but I did not care to unpack it all and perhaps was not in the right mood for it. If you are the type of reader who loves hidden meanings and contemplating symbolism you will likely adore this read, especially if you like fantasy or fairy tale like elements. There are quite a few beautifully written and insightful lines. It is whimsical and frightening, straight forward in its story line but complex with imagination and meaning. I was left with questions because you only got a slight peek into this imaginary world. With my mixed feelings, it is likely I will return to this book when I am in more of a mood for discovery and expect to enjoy it more as I slip even further from childhood.

I guess hanging out with mythical gods who apparently are not just mythical is not my cup of tea. I read this longer, tenth anniversary edition for a book group, and my reading probably would have dragged on much longer if I did not have a book group deadline to meet. Yep, I get it, I get the allegories, the symbolism, the war between the old gods and the new ones. I did like the concept of what keeps the old gods viable. I even liked the character Shadow, but the story was too long and never really drew me into it. It has been a long time since I studied mythology but still I recognized most of the main gods. I just did not care about them, and even their struggle to be recognized in the modern world just fell flat. The physical settings, the descriptions were very enjoyable. I know this book has many fans, but I was happy to finally move on to something more interesting.

This book for me is like the movie the Godfather that I know it is supposed to be good and a lot of people tell me it is good, but I just do not like it. I am on my second reading of the book and I read it about seven years ago and I figured maybe I was just to young to understand it. I like the character Shadow with his stoic nature, but that is about it. The concept is interesting as well, but the concept of old world ideas coming to die in America is a fairly used up one and it is just rehashed here. Reading this book is like walking somewhere in a cold mist and not really knowing where your going, and when you get where you are apparently supposed to be you do not know why the hell you took the trip in the first place. Maybe I just do not get Neil Gaiman, but too each their own. And the above review is a meanderingly and seemingly pointless as the plot of this book.

This may be an unpopular opinion, but I was severely underwhelmed by this book. The basic story itself is good that a middle aged man returns to his hometown for a funeral and finds himself sitting at the edge of a pond remembering the life of his seven year old self. The ideas of sacrifice and memory and growing up are interesting enough. There was just too much unnecessary magic for me. The beginning and the end were quite good, as were some of the in between parts. But there were whole chunks where the magic was drawn out to unnecessary lengths. There is a touch of magical realism here, of course, but it is not good magical realism. It is fantasy purely for the sake of fantasy.