#13. We Were the Lucky Ones: A Novel
#Georgia Hunter
#URL https://www.amazon.com/We-Were-Lucky-Ones-Novel-ebook/product-reviews/B01FRSZAUO/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I absolutely loved this book and I have read many stories detailing the horrors Jews faced throughout Europe before, during, and after World War II and expected this story to be similar. It was different and I connected with it far more that other stories of the same genre and perhaps knowing it was based on the author family made it all the more moving. It is a book that I finished a few weeks ago, but cannot stop talking about to friends and family and this is a story that has stayed with me and I highly recommend.

I would normally avoid a book written about this dark period of history but this book was beautifully written and fast paced and each chapter is filled with hope and the amazing strength of spirit of each character. I finished it last night and I found myself thinking about the Kurc family several times today, terrific read.

I have read a lot of literature and other WWII material and I had read excellent reviews before my book club chose this for next month, so I was ready to read it. I was not at all disappointed and have recommended this book to many others and it was excellent especially for a new author. I knew how it ended, but still the unexpected and the how did it happen kept me turning pages. The characters seemed very real and the events obviously real. I really liked how many stories within the over all story of survival there were, each one different but with a common thread of love, bravery, quick thinking, and some luck.

As an avid reader of historical fiction in WWII, this book is up there at the top. I love that it is based on the writer family, that always makes a story that much more incredible. The story follows a family of five, so it does take a little longer to follow who is who and detail each ones trek over the years, but to me, that makes it all the more fascinating. It also takes so much incredible research to write such a book like this, and then be able to weave a beautiful, easy to read story in to that, makes this author pretty incredible. I do not know how the author could even keep the story on a narrow, easy to read path. I think, as others have said, this would be the WWII book I would love to see everyone have to read, to be able to have this part of history etched in their soul, to never forget, and to appreciate all that we have so easily today and we are the lucky ones for sure.

When I first started this book the characters were confusing to me, but as I got involved in this fascinating story of a strong Jewish family, I began to think this should be required reading for every person everywhere. This is a horrible true story of a horrible war, a senseless horrible war that needs to never be forgotten. This family is one to celebrate and the story gave me pause, I had goosebumps bumps while reading parts of this family story. Please read this true story of hate, just for the sake of hate. Hopefully we can all take good things away from this true and heartbreaking and wonderful story of strength courage and love, a must read.

This is an incredible story of a Jewish family survival during WWII. A family who went in a variety of directions during the invasion of Poland and cheated the roundup of Jews destined for annihilation against incredible odds. It is a great read that brings the development of the family members to life in a gripping narrative that is hard to put down.

Although this story is horrific in its telling of what happened to this family during WWII, yet it is well worth reading, if only to make us realize that we have nothing to complain about and a lot to be grateful for. These people suffered unimaginable atrocities and yet they endured, overcame and not only survived but learned to live with joy again. Thank you, we are the lucky ones to have shared your family stories and hopefully learned to appreciate our own lives a little more.

All in all a good book, with excellent historical references and emotions. My problem was trying to keep all of the characters and family members straight. This story follows the trek of a family, so that additional issue of keeping location and travel straight was annoying and made me lose the story line. Glad I read it, but for me, definitely not a re read, probably would not recommend it as how could we discuss it later.

This story of a family love is filled with sorrow, pain, loss and strength and survival is dependent on their faith in each other and sacrifice is a theme throughout this story. The reader is swallowed by the emotion of each character. Woven into the story are the events that happened during WWII as this family ordeal unfolds.

Great book, at first it was a little difficult to identify and follow all the family members but keep with it. Fascinating stories and different from other WWII books I have recently read and the fact that this is based on family history makes it a must read.