#131. Thoughtful (A Thoughtless Novel)
#S. C. Stephens
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Thoughtful-Thoughtless-Novel-S-Stephens/dp/1455588822/ref=sr_1_140?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-140

Where to start, first off this book was amazing. Just as amazing as the other books in this series. And I can no just pick one favorite from this series. But back to this story, I almost did not read Kellans point of view because so often when a story is one point of view and then the author decides to throw in a second point of view in a different book, it falls so flat for me. This was not the case at all for Kellans story. I felt like I was reading a completely different book. Of course, it had a lot of the same scenes as the first book. But it was written so beautifully that instead of feeling like I was watching a rerun of a movie or show. It added to the effect and I still had the reference from the first book. All those times I read the first book and wished I had insight to how Kellan felt, or what he was thinking. I had it, and I remembered clearly what Kiera was feeling or thinking. I could go on and on about this book. I could go on and on about this series. But I am going to end it here and just say. This is my all time favorite story and I have never had just one. This blows every book I have ever read out of the water, so amazing, so beautiful, so broken, so everything.

Kellen Kyle is one of my all time favorite book boyfriends. When I found out the author was giving us Thoughtless in his point of view, I was over the moon. I luckily got a signed copy of it from her in Boston when we signed together at the North Shore signing, but I waited until I had the book to read it because I of course was not risking ruining a signed copy. This book was amazing since it lets us see the side to the first story, and opened my eyes a lot to the situation from his perspective. I sympathize with him and hurt for him in this book. Reading how much he loved Kiera and how hurt and torn he was having to accept she was his when he knew in his soul they belonged together. I miss this couple so much and would read anything this author publishes for them.

I was a little apprehensive about reading this book and do not normally have good luck when it comes to versions of the originals told from the a male point of view. The first time I read this book, I wanted to chuck my table at someone, preferably Kiera. I was not sure I could take another round of agony and frustration all over again, however, its Kellan Kyle, therefore, no way was I going to miss getting more of my ultimate favorite bad boy. I figured it was a sacrifice I was willing to suffer through if need be. Glad to say there was no sacrificing or suffering.

I really like the drama and romance and it was nice to see how Kellan felt when he said certain things. My only disappointment with this series is that every girl that meets Kellan just finds him over the top handsome. The great thing about humans is that our opinions are different and what one person likes another person dislikes. For example, I personally do not find blonde, blue eyed, tall lean men attractive and I have more of a Mark preference. With all this being said, this is a great series but in reality what one woman finds attractive does not mean another woman will feel the same.

I got to see both Kellan and Kiera in a somewhat different light. I liked that more of Kellan childhood and his bond with Denny was included in the story and it made everything more heart wrenching for me. It is amazing that Kellan is this sexy rock god who can have any woman he wants, yet he is so incredibly insecure. I thought my heart would break when it was revealed why he had so many sexual encounters. Without ruining anything, it is not for your normal reasons of numbing the pain he carried around with him. It made me want to hold him and assure him that everything would work out for him, and he would be okay. And Kiera, well, there were plenty of times in reading their story in earlier novels that I wanted to strangle this girl. However, through Kellan eyes and feelings for her, I saw her a bit differently. I could understand a little more of why she kept floundering in her decision regarding Kellan and Denny. It also shed new light on how both of their insecurities affected them both and all the others that were in their paths. The story of Kellan made me even prouder of the people that he and Kiera eventually grow into.

I am generally disappointed by alternative point of view of this books and regret buying them when I am done. Honestly, it was slow going for the first twenty percent but then I could not put it down. I loved getting in the head of Kellan and I felt like it was a completely different book when you know his motives. I loved his inner monologue and I loved knowing what he was doing when he would disappear for days in this book. I loved knowing why he let Kiera do what she did to him as that was my biggest frustration with him in this book and the cause of many an angry text sent to fellow book club members. Still not the biggest Kiera fan, but I feel like this book showed more growth for her than even her own book did, because Kellan forced her to grow by leaving her at the end. It wraps up nicely at the end and I fell it can be read as part of the series as well as a stand alone. I will be buying it in paperback to complete my collection.

When I read the this book series a few years ago, I fell in love with Kellan Kyle. He became my first book boyfriend and no other character has taken his place. So when I heard that we would be getting his point of view in this book, there was no question that I would be reading it. I very much enjoyed getting inside the head of Kellan. I adore how much he loves Kiera and I love his creative, musical side. I loved and hated learning more about his childhood. I will never complain about more Kellan Kyle, because he makes me swoon. But the first half of this book was just okay for me. It felt very repetitive, very drawn out. The second half of the book flowed much better for me. This book is sexy and angst and heartbreaking. And if possible, it made me love Kellan even more. This was a great companion to the this series. It provided some insight into the inner workings of one of my favorite characters, Kellan Kyle, and it was nice to venture back to the bar of Pete and to revisit the bags and all of their craziness.

I have to start by saying that I absolutely love the this series. The first book was told strictly from Kiera point of view, so I was anxious to read next book, the same plot, but told from Kellan point of view. It was wonderful getting Kellan side of what happened and what he was feeling and experiencing throughout the book. It really made me appreciate the story that much more. I definitely recommend reading Thoughtful after reading the entire Thoughtless series.

It feels like I have been waiting forever to read the point of view of Kellan and I just hope this is not the end. I really hope the other two books are also told from his point of view. In this book, Kellan comes across as a jerk. Finally knowing what was really going in his head, my heart just breaks for him. Sometimes, I felt that if he had just told her right away that he was in love with her, then maybe they would have gotten together sooner. However, I do not think that would have a difference because Kiera was just too absorbed with herself to really care how her actions were making other feel. It seemed like she was just playing him even though that is not really what happened. It was nice knowing the truth behind all the girls he was bringing home for awhile. I did not really care much for the ending because it makes it seem like that is the end of his story when I hope that is not the case. There are just way too many other scenes that I had always wanted to know what he was thinking. I just hope it all comes to fruition. I am looking forward to reading the story of Griffin because he is just too funny, but I still want more of Kellan.

I loved to hear Kellan point of view, but some of the Dialogue did not quite match up with this book. I am not sure if I read the same book as the other reviewers, but I thought there was plenty of emotion in this book. Of course it was repetitive, it was from the point of view of Kellan from events that took place in Thoughtless. What did you expect, we knew what we were reading before we started reading it. To go and give a mediocre rating based on the fact that the book was repetitive, in the past, needs to be something new is just ridiculous. In the synopsis before you one click, it states that this is the point of view of Kellan to the events that took place in this book, if you wanted something new then you should not have read it. I absolutely loved it, were there some parts that could have been left out, of course, but overall I enjoyed it.