#132. The Deal (Off-Campus) (Volume 1)
#Elle Kennedy
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Deal-Off-Campus-1-Elle-Kennedy/dp/1508706255/ref=sr_1_141?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-141

This is not a profound life altering book, just another fluff piece. My patience with the men in these types of novels is low. I read this to feel good for a little while and take my mind of if things. That being said here is why it is a one star. Main male character is a slut because of course why write a guy with any depth when you can take the easy way out and make him a slave to his penis. We see detailed hook ups at the beginning, I usually overlook those even though they are unnecessary. Then we are well into the story, past the part where they have started hanging out and getting to k ow each other. When female main character comes over to tutor him and walks in mid sex with another girl. Instant story killer and It is cheap and a little gross. Note to authors, it is a romance novel. Sex with a random slut is not romantic and I can open up Facebook on any given day and see twenty women dealing with these kind of bags. I do not need to read about it in your bargain bin novel.

This book did not really get my attention the way a good book usually does and I am not sure why. The story was interesting and unique, the writing was good, the humor although sometimes tacky was funny, and the romance and chemistry was definitely great. It just felt like something was missing. An essential piece to make the story a page turner. There just was not enough spark and I felt like the story dragged on, not in a super boring slow paced way. Just average introduction of environment and characters developing way, until it finally got interesting towards the end. I am not sure what exactly could have upped the book. Perhaps more drama in the beginning and middle of the book. Or a more unpredictable story line perhaps. Either way, I get why the series is popular. The author is skilled and many factors, like character development, chemistry, drama and twists and turns, makes this book worth its popularity. It just did not do it for me.

The strongest voice award in this story goes to Garrett. He is exactly what you would expect the captain of a college hockey team to be and he is unapologetic about it. On the other hand, I struggled to connect with through most of the book. Her point of view feels like a watered down echo of Garrett, and some of her actions or reactions seem mismatched with her back story. Regardless of my thoughts, the author kept me reading and intrigued throughout a story about hockey. Predictable in parts, maybe, but entertaining and that is the entire point, and what moves me forward with the other books in the series.

I rarely write a review, but I felt compelled to write for this book. I thought the story line was good, premise cute, witty and humorous conversation. However, a fifteen year old girl was drugged and raped and the attacker got off Scott free, plus his parents sued her parents and won for legal fees. A man who beats his wife, son and girlfriend, the victims never seek help, and no one ever notices bruises and tries to help them. Any designated reporter would cringe when reading that. Unfortunately, these things might happen, but I certainly would not want any one who read this to get the impression that it is not worth reporting or seeking help if they are victims. I would have preferred to see justice prevail.

I really liked the hero in this story and my two stars go to him. Unfortunately, I just could not connect with the heroine. She was too silly for me, despite the suffering she had lived through before the book started. As I did not like her, I found the romance unconvincing because I felt sorry for the hero falling for her. I listened on Audible, after many hours, I found the voice of the narrator too husky, not a good match for me. She narrated both the hero and points of view of the heroine. I feel a male narrator should have spoken for the hero. In addition, the continuing story of the friend of a hero in book two is read by the same narrator, a sample provided at the end of the deal. As the voices were the same, it was hard to imagine that the follow up story was now about different characters. In my opinion, different narrators should be employed to read sequels starring different protagonists. I am sad to say, this novel was wrong for me and I will not be reading more in this series.

I was worried at the start of the book, because the heroine is a rape survivor and sadly the romance genre too often employs the rape trope for entertainment. However, the recovery of the main character is authentic and only a subplot of the story. I did not really like the convoluted deal from which this book takes its title that the main character reluctantly agrees to tutor Graham, captain of the hockey team, to get the football player she is crushing on to notice her. Once the characters started having feelings for each other, though, the story picked up and I will read on in the series.

This book really interested me when I saw the raving reviews and I was super excited to start the series but unfortunately I did not fall in love with the couple which is a must for me. I really wanted to and I kept reading hoping the connection would get better but it just never happened. The characters on their own we are great but I did not feel all gooey inside when they finally declared their feelings for one another. I like an author who can make me miss the couple when I have to put the book down for a few minutes and the characters just did not do it for me. It was a cute fun read and I think the author did a good job of developing the characters and there were a few parts I truly did enjoy and I laughed out loud quite a bit but that is about it. Overall this book is good but not great.

While reading this, I kept wondering if I have read it before. I am still wondering if maybe I have read it before. I enjoyed it, but I did not find it swoon worthy. Characters become acquainted when Garrett says he can help her get a guy she is crushing on if she had tutor him and the plot is cute, but predictable. As they spend time together, feelings begin to develop. Over time they are liking each other, making out, having sex, and professing their love for one another, again predictable. I liked this book, but I did not like that it felt as if it were a copy of another book that I am struggling to think of, but with a different set of characters.

This author is one of my go to authors when it comes to adult romance so I anticipated enjoying her hand at the new adult genre as well. The Deal is certainly one of the better new adult novels I have read but it still did not win me over. Regardless, I applaud this author for incorporating some pretty heavy themes into this romance and managing to keep the sexy factor strong. Emotions were high and the drama element was in full force on both sides, but I was able to keep my eye rolls at bay. I enjoyed this book but I do not think I will be continuing the series. However, if you are a reader who does enjoy the new adult genre, I highly recommend this book, and because of this author, I will go ahead and recommend the rest of the series as well.

The characters were very well developed and likable. I loved how the heroine is not too emotional about her trauma. What she went through was serious but I do not like to listen to all the emotion of getting over it. I like that she already got over the major humps in recovery. The only thing I felt a little bad about was the sex. It felt cheap to me and not very thought out. I do not need the main characters to propose and cry when they first do it. I just need to then to love or almost love each other. I need it to be more than something you would do with anyone i need it to be something a bit more.