#136. Hollywood Dirt
#Alessandra Torre
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Hollywood-Dirt-Alessandra-Torre/dp/1940941717/ref=sr_1_156?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556732981&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-156

The story was busy and on the cutesy side for the author. It just never spoke to me other than some appeal for the older guy, younger girl romance, despite my ambivalence. Most movie actors are narcissists, not unlike Cole, so maybe the romance of the couple would have grabbed me more outside the context of film making. Then again, hands down, there is a sex scene that may be one of the best I have ever read, but honestly that is about the only thing I remember about this book. It is popular for sure, and has been made into a film, not exactly a ringing endorsement, but it droned on for too long to make its romantic point. Only certain scenes captured my attention and the rest felt tedious and rife with filler and quirky characters and lame movie production situations. Breaking my rule about movie industry romances turned out to be a predictable mistake in this case. However, it does not detract from my love for other books of this author. More power to the fans who clearly enjoyed it.

This was my first book by this author and I am thinking maybe I should have started with a different one because if they are all like this I may not read her anymore. The premise of the book was sweet but way too long on the little details. The inner monologue was so long at times I started just skimming through paragraphs. The majority of the book is told through Summers thoughts and a lot of them repeating. I almost out the book down, but kept at it because they made a movie so it must be great. Also the constant comparisons to Nadia were extremely annoying. I do not feel that the characters even spent enough civil time together to all of a sudden being in love. I am disappointed by all the hype with this book and I do not feel it was that good.

This was a light enjoyable read and pretty much what I expected, with one exception. My issue with Hollywood Dirt is the change in narrative style from first person to third person throughout the story. At first I found this to be quite jarring but eventually shifted my mental gears more readily once I knew to expect it. However, I never liked the switch between storytelling styles and it always managed to pull me from the story, an aggravation. I know this is simply a personal preference, but I wish the author had picked one style and stuck with it from beginning to end. This reader would have enjoyed the story more.

This book is okay but kinda boring. This definitely was not one of my favorites, I found it kind of repetitive and very predictable. You really could have read the first two chapters and the last two chapters and had The whole story in a nutshell. Cole and Summer hated each other throughout the entire book but deep, deep down they each had feelings for each other too. It took the entire book for those feelings to finally surface and to get your reflection. This is definitely not one that I would want to read again. Did not love it but did not hate it either, just kind of do not care.

I know everyone is over the moon abut this book. I love the the writing of this author and am wondering if all of the five stars are because of the author and not the actual story here. This book was a bit slow and the writing was good, the characters were okay but I felt no connection with them. An A list, drop dead gorgeous actor falls for a southern girl nobody. The best part of the story was a surprise appearance by a much loved character from this previous books of the author. It was just kind of forgettable if you read a lot of books in one year.

This book fell flat for me and I knew it was not going to be a regular book of this author and was looking forward to a contemporary romance written from the mind of a great author. This book was one hundred pages too long. In no way did this book need to be four hundred pages. Cole and Summer hated one another for two third of the book, have one passionate night then are in love. There was way too much set up to this book and not enough concentration on the heart of the story. We are strung along throughout the book wondering why she was ostracized from her town. I was waiting for a huge twist, as that is what this author does in her books. The twist was so stupid. A lot of build up for a book that was pretty disappointing.

This was a really good book, but some parts just really seemed to drag, then other parts the story really picked up and the plot was going great and then, back to dragging along again. Summer is a small town girl who somehow captures the eye of a big time movie star Cole, who is hiding in Georgia after catching his wife having sex with another man in their California home. Cole is in Georgia to film a movie about the Coke Company, but sparks fly long before Summer is even cast in the movie and Cole keeps adding steamy love scenes and kisses to get closer to Summer. Some of the story has some really funny elements to it, like Summer giving Cole a baby rooster for a pet, Cole getting revenge by filling a prop case with a bunch of condoms. It is a great romance read but it dragged out in some spots.

Rather predictable boring story of a country girl and her sexual fantasies and realities with a famous city boy movie star. Any attempt to make the plot more interesting by bringing former boy lover boy into the equation merely revolve around tedious legal matters so fail to provide the eternal triangle spice. Needless to say some of the sexual issues get resolved, and the story ends in the fairy tale way. Problems surrounding her past obnoxious behavior, which threaten to derail the movie they are making, seem to be left just hanging.

I am not really sure what all of the hype was about for this book. I had waffled over purchasing this book for awhile when it first came out but decided to give it a try after seeing all of the reviews. It was okay but not great and I did not really see what drew them to each other, it all seemed so rushed. The characters met and Summer did not like Cole. With good reason, then all of the sudden Summer can not stop thinking and lusting over Cole. I would have understood the plot more if Cole had shown Summer a hidden side of himself. Then all of the sudden they have sex and they are in love and living together.

Sadly I do not like this story and maybe I will go back to it but I highly doubt it. Maybe because I am not from the south but I was sick of hearing about sweet tea. The characters were one dimensional and story line was very predicable. Hot Hollywood boy meets country girl that has an edge with him from the moment she meets him. These story lines are so over done with little substance. I was bored stiff up until the point that they meet which is not until around thirty five percent then I was just rolling my eyes after that. I admit I went to the end of the book to see if the ending was worthy of a continuation, and definitely not.