#137. The Snow Queen
#Joan D. Vinge
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Snow-Queen-Joan-D-Vinge/dp/0446676640/ref=sr_1_163?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556733018&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-163

I bought this book for my daughter for Christmas, but really, I bought it mostly because I thought it would be a unique addition to our book collection. This book will not disappoint, It is truly a work of art, absolutely gorgeous. My daughter has a great appreciation and respect for books. When she received this, I explained to her that this book is very special and she has to be careful with it. She will spend lots of time carefully looking at the pictures, mesmerized by the colors and pop ups and insists to read this before bed every night. This book would not be ideal for a child under five. From experience, I can say that kids under five will most likely rip up a pop up book. To have this one ripped up would be a shame. This book is truly beautiful and a wonderful addition to any collection, and a joy to read for adults and children alike.

One of my all time favorite novels and the Snow Queen is a great story, if you want to read it at that level, with a steady quick pace and just one twist after another that loops into a seamless ending. But if you want to dig deeper, the book has a lot to say about love, civilization, politics, justice, and how it is that we come to be who we are. There is a great nature versus nurture debate in the characters. I love it because, like Dune, it is a book I can read over and over again and still find something I did not quite see before. The author is an amazing author, who battled some serious traumatic head injury that put her career on hold. But I hope for and continue to wait for more books from this talented author and this series, of which this is the first book, has at least three other books to it. I make sure she is part of my personal library wherever I go.

I bought this book for my daughter for Christmas, but really, I bought it mostly because I thought it would be a unique addition to our book collection. This book will not disappoint and it is truly a work of art, absolutely gorgeous. My daughter is five years old and has a great appreciation and respect for books. When she received this, I explained to her that this book is very special and she has to be careful with it. She will spend lots of time carefully looking at the pictures, mesmerized by the colors and pop ups and insists to read this before bed every night. This book would not be ideal for a child under five. From experience, I can say that kids under five will most likely rip up a pop up book. To have this one ripped up would be a shame and this book is truly beautiful and a wonderful addition to any collection, and a joy to read for adults and children alike.

The pop ups and illustrations are fantastic fairy tale artwork and to check it out further you can look for a video online of this version. The pop up execution is really detailed, if you are a fan of the story, you must know this is abridged, and quite so. It is fabulous for a pop up collection, or a Snow Queen fan, but not without the full story in a separate book. The biggest disappointment is that this book did not have a pop up for the last scene, just words. It would have been wonderful to portray the happy ending in full color and dimension. For those with tender children that the original scene with the robber girl with the knife and all is either left out or altered till it is not all that scary, if at all. One of the pop ups, this first one if I remember correctly, is of a scary looking goblin and he is all over the page in his scariness. Search for the video if this is a concern.

My grandmother sent this particular version of the snow queen to my sisters and I when we were little, and nearly thirty and five years later I could still remember clearly the haunting images of the Snow Queen peering into a frosted window. So, I bought a copy and the story remains mostly true to the original, which is important for those of us who are purists about our fairy tales. I am not inclined to share this with most children, but every so often I end up with a child in my class who has a bit of a morbid way to them and will enjoy stories like this.

The Snow Queen is one of my favorite childhood stories, so I was really excited to find this version as a gift to share with a friend. The pop ups in this book are intricate and beautiful, and they really bring the story to life. They are colorful and detailed, and seem sturdy enough to withstand a good amount of handling. The only thing I found a little troublesome was the size and color of the story text and it is a bit small, in my opinion, and somewhat hard to see in places because it dose not contrast enough with the background color. It might be difficult to read for some people. Overall, though, I am very pleased with the product and I am excited to share this story with my friend.

I am a big fan of Candlewick Press since they have the most beautiful illustrated children books. This is the main reason why I decided to purchase this illustrated edition of the Snow Queen and I am so very glad I did so. The illustrations in this book amazing and, together with the quality of the book itself which is always the case with Candlewick Press and the wonderful story, they make this book a great buy. The print is nice and big and while it is probably not for a very young reader, I would say that an early independent reader can handle this book, especially since the rich illustrations help keep the attention of the reader on the book and not get discouraged. I highly recommend this book also for young children that my six year old loves the story and the pics and will happily sit through the whole book.

Ever since I read Hans Christian Anderson superlative fairy tale, I fell in love with it. And without anybody telling me, I immediately recognized from where Lewis got the idea of the cruel white witch in his Chronicles of Narnia. This tale is magical, mystical, mythopoetic and essentially spiritual. I have come to believe that fairy tales are the most adult literature that anyone can read, for they are true to sublime reality. I felt lost in the world of the snow queen and could feel every vibration from the pages seeping into me. Also the graphic illustrations which accompany this edition of tale enhances the narrative tenfold. Children and adults will enjoy every sentence and every picture in this wonderful book.

This book is a concise edited version with fabulous drawings that illustrate the adventures of Gerda as she searches for her friend Kai. I was compelled to reread Snow Queen after seeing the movie Frozen and this was the perfect edition for me. It is actually subtitled, a retelling, of the Hans Christian Andersen tale because it is condensed from the original. Despite its brevity, it captures all the main elements of the classic story. The best feature of this handsome hardcover is the colorful and imaginative illustrations by Bagram that the wicked troll whose mirror blinds Kai and freezes his heart, the old woman, the crow, the prince and princess, and the robber girl, the northern lights, and the Snow Queen herself. The book is aimed at kids ages four and eight but I do not see why anyone of any age could not enjoy it. I am middle aged and it is a lovely addition to my book collection.

A writer with talent crosses all genres because she has that unique ability of writing a story about people. Her science fiction rendition of Snow Queen is phenomenal. It has got fascinating elements of science fiction, a fallen Empire, dozens of cultures and races, twin suns, century seasons, and corruption of immortality. It is brimming with eye popping. The author twists the scientific into the fantastical. Her characterization evokes genuine interest in their lives and struggles. She has become my favorite author since then. I just wish she would get back into writing, though I understand genius can not be rushed.