#138. Consolation (The Consolation Duet) (Volume 1)
#Corinne Michaels
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Consolation-Duet-1-Corinne-Michaels/dp/1942834055/ref=sr_1_166?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556733018&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-166

I got this book as a freebie and I did not read all of the reviews so imagine my surprise when it ends with a cliffhanger. I am just putting that out there for those people who may not like cliffhangers. This book is awesome and it is the first book that I have read from this series. That being said, I do not feel like I missed anything by not reading books one to two. This book has major twists and turns that you just did not see coming if you did not read any reviews. I am not going to spoil the plot for anyone on this review. The story is intriguing and it will draw you in. I mean what is not to love about a seal who is hot, caring, and all around good guy. There were moments of sorrow, there were moments of heat, and there were moments of humor. Dual point of view, however, we get point of view of Natalie more so than that of Liam. Thank goodness book four is already out so I do not have to wait long to find the ending to this magnificent story.

Where do I even begin and from the very beginning my heart felt like it was in my throat. Being a military wife for the past twelve years this book truly hit home for me. I have attended memorials and there are just no words to express the emotions that run through you when trying to console the family of the fallen. Corinne brought all those emotions to the forefront and made me feel as if I were a part of the story going through every emotion as it happened. When Liam came in the picture to help Natalie it was so easy to fall in love with him and his selflessness. The easy banter between the the two had a smile on my face as if the entire scene were playing out before me. Without giving anything away let us just say I laughed so hard when he took care of Aarabelle and used rope. Throughout Consolation I was left wondering what would happen next with every turn of the page and let us just say there was absolutely no disappointments. The surprises that were thrown in were just and I am so anxious to find out what happens next because I was left utterly speechless with the last turn of events. An amazing read from an amazing author and I cannot wait for more.

Holy crap girls be ready and I mean get your Kleenex some wine or whatever alcohol you require then grab some depends. As hard as I cried is as hard as I laughed. The story of Natalie is hard and I love her she is my favorite female now and you will love her. Now we have the hotness that is Liam he is swoon worthy and he is perfection. This grabs you from the start its compelling and I was not able to stop reading, sleep who needs that. The writing is exceptional I am beyond blown away. I can not say much spoilers and all but this is beyond five stars this is a must read Corinne has surpassed everything I was expecting.

Thank you, a contemporary I fell in love with. It has been so long since a contemporary book has gripped me like this one. How I love Liam, you are perfection to me. From sexy navy seal to handyman around the house to a hot babysitter to an all around amazing man that I swooned over the entire book. I had a smile plastered on my face almost the entire time. The love scenes between Natalie and Liam were a perfect combination of sexy and sweet. There was a twist midway through the book that I did not see coming and another one at the end, major cliffhanger. Now I am in book hangover land wishing that I could wake up tomorrow and book two would be on my kindle why.

Be ready for an emotional roller coaster, as I read I felt so many different emotions and really felt like I could relate with Lee. We start the story right smack in the middle of what can only be perceived as the worst and most trying point in her life. The very sudden and unexpected death of her husband while she is pregnant with their daughter. Obviously, she becomes an emotional robot locking away her true feelings and not grieving properly in order to care for her daughter who is born shortly after. Her husbands best friend Liam comes back to town to help out because he had promised to take care of her in the event that her husband Aaron should pass away. Get ready to fall in love with Liam, who is basically everything a woman could want. As they start to have feelings for one another, they both fight against them. But fate has got big plans for them. Get ready for an ending that will have you rushing to buy the next book in the series Consolation.

I have to say when Corinne gave us Jackson I did not think another one of her characters could take his place in my heart. Well Move over Jackson because there is a new Seal in town and his name is Liam. Liam is sexy, caring and hot. Ladies you do not want to miss out on this beautiful, heartbreaking story. Natalie is going through so much with the loss of her husband Aaron. Being a single mother to her precious baby girl, Natalie is very strong. Liam is there for her as he was best friend of Aaron. He cares for her, they both care about each other they are both grieving the loss of Aaron and they find comfort in each other.

The heartbreak that Natalie endures in this book is astounding. She is left in pieces as a single mom with Her beautiful daughter to look after. Enter Liam, the rock pushes Natalie to out of herself and she will be off a life that she is living. Watching these two come alive with each other is so sweet and powerful. There is a kindness in Liam and an inmate goodness that makes you fall in love with him from the get go. Natalie never stands a chance and the question is, can they survive after all the loss and the gut wrenching twists. I loved this book and it gave me hope for more.

There are books that stay with you long after you finish reading them. Consolation is one of those books for me. I was fortunate to receive an arc over a month ago, and have not quit thinking about it since. I enjoy a book where the author makes me feel the emotions of the characters and I felt all of the emotions of this book, the heartbreak of Natalie over losing her husband, the building of love for his best friend, and the need to do what is right for her daughter.

This book was so amazing and I do not believe I had been that immersed in a book in a really long time. Corinne Michaels writes in such a powerful way that grabs you and draws you in immediately. I read the prologue and was instantly drawn in to this wonderful book. I can not even begin to imagine what the seal wives go through and Natalie shows that she is a very strong person. She has a baby who needs her mother so she has to be strong for her daughter. This book is emotionally intense but also filled with lots of love, friendship, and laughter. It will pull at your heartstrings as well as make you laugh. I have already purchased Conviction and will be starting that right away. Corinne Michaels is an amazing author and I hope she continues to writes such powerful novels since I plan to buy them. I very highly recommend this book.

Having read almost all of books of this author except this duet for the longest time, I have heard nothing but amazing things about Liam, the male lead. So, I gave it a shot on my heart, so Natalie, the female lead, has a husband who is a Navy seal and dies. His best friend, Liam, comes around to fulfill his promise that he would take care of Natalie and her daughter with her late husband. Natalie, being heartbroken, kind of goes through the motions for a bit and Liam shakes her out of her funk. Liam makes Natalie smile and he makes her laugh and he makes her feel. And eventually, he makes her feels things they both feel they should not be feeling. But if there is one thing that is true about Liam, it is that Liam is loyal, almost to a fault. He feels a need to protect and heal Natalie, but he also has the ghost of his best friend lurking in his mind. And Natalie needs to figure out if what she is feeling for Liam is because he is here, or because she dose not want him to leave.