#141. Where the Crawdads Sing
#Delia Owens
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Where-Crawdads-Sing-Delia-Owens/dp/0735219095/ref=sr_1_1?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736403&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-1

This is one of the most moving, caring, emotional novels I have ever read. I read this book only because I had met Delia and have read her wildlife books she wrote with husband Mark Owens. After starting the book, this was all I could think about for days. The life of Kya become part of mine and the characters ceased to live on the page. Characters were alive with me and I was in the marsh, feeling every feather, the air, creatures and the plants. Jumpin became a trusted friend and so many moments touched my very soul. I should not have been surprised as Delia has a great style in her wildlife books that I love to read. But a novel like this is not my normal read. Maybe I need to now reconsider what I choose as this book stopped me cold and made me rethink a lot that happened in my life. Delia touched the human soul with her behavioral descriptions. She is not only a respected wildlife scientist, she is a human behaviorist and understands more about the human condition that just about anyone else I know. This is a tremendous treasure of a book and I am sure it is staying in my read again list for a long time and I highly recommend the book.

I am extremely stingy with my compliments for good books, but this tale is well deserving of the praise. Of the last dozen or so books I have read, only two others earned five complete stars by me that she read to us in the late afternoons, A Life in Novels by Kathleen Hill, and Circe by Madeline Miller. I have to confess that I have also had magical moments with marsh creatures such as herons, eagles, and mud turtles. Like the main character, Kya, I am a compulsive collector of treasures from those Great Rock Tumblers, the Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean which makes this book so attractive to me. However, the writing of this author is more than just about the natural world. She spins a good and very well written tale about murder, courtroom drama, nature, poetry, and even love. Another reviewer described the writing as lyrical. Take your time and savor every sentence.

My favorite book of the year by far, so beautifully written, no skimming over sections in this book. I devoured every single word. I laughed, I cried a lot and most importantly thought differently about life, mine and everyone else. I became the character of Kya, desperately alone and forced to try to eke out an existence on her own in the marshes. The marshes are their own separate character, but despite the fact that I am freaked out by insects and mud and most other creepy crawlies, I could actually imagine myself enjoying the Carolina experience, hard as it was. You will root for Kya, I did, sometimes shouting out loud. I read this book in one day and can not stop thinking about it. There are several clues to the surprise ending if you pay attention to the details and this book is a keeper.

Let me start by saying that this is the first review I have ever given. I am a voracious reader and have over five thousands books in my library. I read fiction, non fiction, political, bios, horror, true crime, and everything in between. I saw this book recommended on some magazine publication review, do not remember which one. The plot sounded like something I might be interested in with intrigue, mystery, murder, and love. I will admit that the narration of nature in the swamp and marsh does get a little redundant but if you get past that you will find a book with a narrative hard to put down. You will feel compassion for the main character like you may have never felt before. This book brought me to tears at the end and I recommended it as a must read. I do not think you will walk away not remembering Kya for a long time.

I loved this book from the very first sentence to the very last sentence. The prologue begins in 1969 in the Marsh. From the first few sentences describing it that Marsh is a space of light, where grass grows in water, and water flows into the sky, you are pulled into the wonderful descriptive writing. But then we soon learn that we are being introduced to the Marsh through the discovery of a body, that of Chase Andrews. Then we are taken back to 1952 and Kya, six years old, watches her mother walking away from the house. She is wearing her fake alligator skin high heels and carrying a blue train case. Mother always turned around to wave when she reached the road, but this time she did not. That was the last time Kya saw her mother. As her brothers and sisters leave one by one, Kya is left to fend for herself. Sometimes her father is around and sometimes he is not and Kya learns to survive in the Marsh.

Kya, abandoned, grows up alone in a shack in the coastal marsh of North Carolina. This is her story, one of love and mystery. Her marsh is located an hour and a half from Greenville. Yet when the father of Kya drunk and does not have a car, needs to seek advice from veterans affairs, Kya goes not to nearby Fayetteville, but to Asheville, miles away near the Tennessee border. Later, when a shopkeeper leaves town to stock up on supplies, he goes not to nearby Wilmington, or New Bern, or even Raleigh, but apparently makes a hundreds mile round trip again to Asheville. Many read this manuscript, including an editor, and yet no one seems to have consulted a map of North Carolina. This bizarre geographical ignorance mars an otherwise nicely written account of the struggle with loneliness, isolation, and love of Kya. Still, a four star, and overall a nice easy read.

The charm of a fantasy becomes anxiety provoking and fodder for our unspoken desire for justice. A child abandoned by her family in the marshland of North Carolina. Unable to read and without adults to establish a moral bearing, she creates her own spiritual beliefs and conforms her actions accordingly. She creates a natural world on the bubble beyond normal human society. Some seem able to enter the bubble, but, at the end, the morality of Kya dominates the tale, just as nature dominates the world of human existence, whether we like it or not.

I absolutely loved this book and I used the whisper sync so I could read and listen as I was driving, then was not a time when the book was not interesting. Actually I purposely drove a longer route on my trip so I could continue to listen. the characters in the book you either loved or hated. My heart broke for Kya, especially since we were the same age and I could not possibly understand how she survived in this horror of her childhood. She is a survivor and what she loved and accomplished was amazing. This book was amazing a must read.

It is only once in a blue moon that a novel captures me as this one did. For me to write a review is also a rarity, from the first paragraph to the last I was completely immersed in the plot, characters, and motifs. The lyric voice sings clearly in the words of Kya, the main character, both heart and gut wrenching. I am profoundly affected by this novel and was pleased that the author gave us the complete story. For most novels, I do find that I read a book, finish it, and then a few days later have difficulty remembering what the book was about. I know that this novel will always be with me in mind and spirit. I have and will heartily recommend this novel to my friends, family, and anyone else who loves to read. I would say that if you read no other book this year, read Where the Crawdads Sing.

Slow down your breath and find that place in your chest that flutters soft and patient, like anticipating a kiss. This book is delightful and it starts slow, waiting for the reader to match its tempo. Then grips you in the ebb and flow of human and nature. The ability of this author to define longing and loneliness makes me want to capture her words in heart murmurs, so crisp is her understanding of human need. In a normal book, the conclusive wrap up at the end would bore me with its tidiness. This is no normal book and I never wanted it to end. Thank you for your gift to literary excellence.