#142. Educated: A Memoir
#Tara Westover
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Educated-Memoir-Tara-Westover/dp/0399590501/ref=sr_1_3?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736403&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-3

Unfortunately thousands of adults, mainly women, could write autobiographies about living with enabling mothers, controlling fathers, and being enablers themselves. Maybe with less medical emergencies thrown in, there was no insight into why women live this way. Why women with a chance to leave abusive destructive relationships, families, stay. Why women, live with, stay with and enable abusive, mentally ill, men. More importantly how to change, how to leave. The book begins with Tara as a young child so she knows no other way, however Tara is, I believe, around twenty eight years old with a PhD in history from Cambridge by the end of the book. Absolutely no insight as to why, even as an adult, she continually returns home and tolerates, allows, family, young children, relatives, to be harmed living in this horrible family dynamic.

I have no doubt the author had a terrible childhood and terrible parents, but like the author of The Glass Castle, there are just too many unbelievable medical emergencies. A car accident where the whole family goes over a cliff without wearing seat belts and no one dies seemed incredible. The mother is supposedly brain damaged after the accident, but there is no diagnosis from a medical professional to confirm that, but the brother catching on fire to the point that his skin is burned off down to muscle and sinew. And the brother recovers from that injury without attention from real medical professionals, that is just too much for me to stomach or frankly believe. That something terrible happened to her brother, I believe, that her horrible parents caused something terrible to happen to her brother. But that he suffered what she describes as third degree burns, sought no medical attention, and actually recovered, that I do not believe that. I am sorry this memoir was not believable for me, so it was not instructive. I returned it to audible, but I have to say the narrator was great.

I found the book to be mostly a page turner, but not enjoyable. I expected to be inspired, but I disliked almost all the characters including Tara. Maybe I am just cynical, but I have to wonder that was this really non fiction. There were just too many coincidences and the sequence of events just too neat to be real. And for a woman to have come so far and become self educated to such a high level, I was dumbfounded as to how she kept making the same stupid mistakes over and over without truly adjusting her value system.

The story was very fascinating but this was not real. Once I finished, I reread the comments and did a little research of my own and now I feel like I enabled a deranged human in a very public charade the type of people and conflicts I try with all my might to avoid getting involved with. I was duped into my worst nightmare, if you are going to read this, you feel obligated because your stupid book club picked it. The author should at least look into the information that her family has out there and take everything in knowing that it is highly disputed by friends, family and logic.

The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. This is a painful tale of a dysfunctional and abusive family. A few of the children manage to escape and academically succeed, but one wonders about the degree to which their background has caused significant psychological scarring. The author escapes and is able to overcome zero homeschooling and get a PhD in history, but for years still goes back to the family in spite of their intractable lunacies. As I read it, the returns and attempts to have a normal relationship only serve to make Tara experience the old, chronic and understandable self doubts about her own sanity. It is hard for me to give a true star rating. It was an interesting read, but hard to like a book which largely dwells on the ignorance and pain inflicted on the children. At least a few escaped, but as I said initially, at what psychological cost. One wonders to what degree Tara still suffers but is brilliant enough to simulate normality. Too bad the rationality demonstrated in her PhD thesis fails to stop her from returning to her insane and destructive parents.

Burns, Brains popping through holes in heads, fire melting entire bodies and brain injuries. Horribly gruesome accidents, each worse than the first defying description. It became unbearable, but they all recover with no doctor, no stitches, and no hospital, and there is no infections that kill them. After extreme injury, and abuse, she jumps over rafters in the sky, climbs up a front loader. Parents should be arrested, and then we are to believe she lived in a dumpy junkyard, but at the end of the book, they are millionaires that employ half the town. Finally this book dawned on me how naive I was to believe this.

I cannot understand why is so much praise been given to this book. True, the author went through a hellish upbringing and managed to compile a long list of great accomplishments. But, she is still trapped on the duality of her self. Even worse, it appears, she has given up on her obligation to get the appropriate authorities involved in this ongoing tragedy of spousal and children abuse. A tragedy that conceivably could end up with a murder been committed. It is my belief that the ongoing hold the father of the author continues to have over her is the real reason for her paralyzing approach to this time bomb.

I love books and words and beautiful writing. This book was not beautiful in that way and I agree with the reviewer who said the author should have waited a few years, read more and thought more and then started writing. This intense life story needed some distance and depth as well as more skill as a writer. I had to skim parts of the book that should have been edited out since they were long, pointless and rambling and set my mind teeth on edge. The editors should have caught things like the sun shining warmly, but this is a rare book that is both beautifully written and compelling. Good for the author, she still did a great job on a book that must have been painful to write.

This is just one more book about a dysfunctional family and I quit reading half way through. In an interview, the author made it sound like the family was isolated from the world and living off the land but they have a home, electricity, and a phone. There is so much left out and if it is true that the author and her siblings went to college, how were they able to do so well having had little education. They have accidents every other page but no one gets an infection due to the lack of a doctor visit but supposedly the homemade remedies of the mother take care of everything. The medical world should take notice, if this is true. The father buys no insurance or registers the cars but when there are accidents, there are no repercussions, or at least she dose not state it. With so many incidents that have various takes on them depending whom she talked to, it makes me wonder if there is not even another view. She says she kept journals but I am not sure that she recorded what vegetable her mother was chopping when she made a statement although she includes this in this tale.

This was a difficult read for book club and it was difficult to read about the abuse. It was difficult to reconcile inconsistencies, no western doctors but she had orthodontic treatment. I kept hoping for some joy or some great revelation, instead it was sad and maddening. Perhaps the great revelation was the fact she was able to free herself to write it. I wish had not purchased the Kindle version so that I could practice and remove this joy, less book from my life. That would be my recommendation that you should borrow this book from the library so you can free yourself from it when you have finished.