#145. The Right Side of History: How Reason and Moral Purpose Made the West Great
#Ben Shapiro
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Right-Side-History-Reason-Purpose/product-reviews/0062857908/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_8?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=8

As a mother, especially the mother of a passionately conservative teenager entering his college search year among today unsettling environment, I am so grateful to the author for writing this timely book. I have grown increasingly concerned with the unnecessary and completely unwarranted infighting within humankind along with an erosive tribalism mentality that certain ideologies seem to want to perpetuate in order to control more and more people enabled by adults who should know that they are being played. That anyone is still allowing this to happen is what has been baffling me. Enter the author and The Right Side of History, which touches upon the incidents that led us to this madness and seeks to solve these issues which have become insurmountable to some of us. I hope that more potential readers realize that this type of information, filled with actual facts and compelling reading, is crucial to those whose foundation relies on us to provide the best future for the next generation. A generation of young people who learn from the actions of adults whose unhealthy addiction to daily outrage and the demonization of any beliefs that oppose our own are not helping us to evolve together as we were meant to. Thank you Ben, I am so grateful to you for helping to raise the necessary awareness on behalf of our children.

The Right Side of History is historically accurate and philosophically consistent. It stays on the academic and logical side of the delicate balance between patriotic nationalism for no other reason than Merica and a reasonable argument that indeed as he contends in the book. As a society, we are forgetting that almost everything great that has ever happened in history happened because of people who believe in both Christian values and the Greek born power of reason. The author has once again proved his argument through reason and answered his critics with undeniable truth. It is far more than meager glorification of Western civilization. He spends ample time explain how we got where we are in the West and why the left wants to destroy the idea of democracy. An incredible read which was well worth reading the entire book the day it was released.

Very Informative book, he gives his interpretation on what USA was founded on. This is why my family immigrated to the USA from Mexico on its foundation. This book was made to reunite not divide, I can not be thankful enough for the author. I use to be more on the liberal side, I am twenty two years old and the author is a very intelligent person that captures your attention especially for young people, he really expands the mind for the better. I am now a conservative and I am so much happier. Ignore the one star comments, dose not even make sense the reviews written honestly. If you go in reading the book with negative labels on the conservatism of course your not going to enjoy the book. So it is for people who are open to learning about what America was founded on and our values as America. It dose not have to be yours specifically to this day but it is what America was founded on.

There is a lot of things I disagree with this author about and there is some things I agree with. This presentation of his collected information is extremely informative and shows a good root of where a lot of viewpoints of this author originate based on historical data. I hate reading about history and I can not stand novels. I pretty much can only tolerate textbooks. This book, however, was an easy read. I did not like his other books but thoroughly enjoyed this one as I feel its structure and presentation is fairly clear. I read a review that said he only cites things that back his point of view, but that is simply not true. If you dig into some of the information you will see some differences between his interpretation versus other interpretations. The raw information itself is fairly pure and unadulterated.

Excellent book, this author is correct when he says this is a book everyone needs to read. I came home from work to find this book waiting for me and as soon as I cracked it open I could not put it down. I am only about one third of the way through and I will update this review if my opinion changes but, I doubt it will. I will not give any detail because, you should buy the book yourself but, as always, the author lays out his argument in a thoughtful, informative, and simple to grasp manner. If you have ever heard the author speak, this is not surprising. He covers a breadth of topics, all of which, are backed up in the notes section with literally eighteen full pages of citation, so you can easily go and fact check everything he says. Again, I recommend this book to anyone who values tactful argument, free speech, and a thoughtful approach to our modern era. God bless the author and God bless America.

In college, the required Western Civilization course was boring and I did not think it was important. The author helped me see how wrong I was. The author hits the nail on the head. Most of us have no idea what made our country, the best ever. Ben writes about the importance of Christian values and reason. We need to go back to these foundations and teach them to our children in order to continue this great experiment of our founding fathers. I learned so much from his book and he is a great writer and everyone should read this fabulous book.

First, this is review of political/religious philosophy, if you are looking for a book that promotes a certain politician you will come up wanting. This is a history of political philosophy and it is well researched and a pleasure to read. It brought back fond memories of learning about the origin of various political or religious ideologies. The material is accurate and approachable and I left feeling that I knew more than when I started. Additionally, the author puts forth his own opinion quite often, but always makes the effort to support his conclusion with relevant facts. There is no belittling of opinion or position, just facts and logical argument. Some may find it a bit dry, but the material reads very fast and the structure of the book creates a compelling story of philosophical history.

As an atheist, I was not sure there would be much for me in this volume and I misjudged. This book is a well reasoned, well written case for the importance of Christian values. This author recapitulates thousands of years of philosophy and human behavior into a strong argument that without the twin foundations of religion and reason, we would not be the moral creatures we are today. Put another way, you can not derive morality from science alone and it is certainly not human nature. Even if you disagree with that core premise, the author offers plenty to think about. I, for one, have not stopped considering what gives me moral purpose and how I can act in service of those aims going forward in life.

Shapiro puts into words what makes the West exceptional and the responsibility each generation has to protect the freedom we have come to know. While it is difficult to feel optimistic in turmoil of today political landscape, Shapiro presents a path forward that can allow the West to cling to its values and prevail as the world leading force for freedom. An excellent read that helps to explain how reason and faith have worked together over the course of history to create the greatest society the world has ever known and how we can keep it that way.

This is a comprehensive, historical review of both the Christian heritage and the pagan secular Godless heritage. On the one side is the focus on the moral, divine covenant of Sinai along with Greek reasoning that merged the transcendental word with God given human reasoning to discover the world he created. On the other side of history is the closed world of secular humanism where man has no one to talk to but himself. The former on results based on creatures made in the image of God and by justification by faith while the latter is based on what man can do rather than what he ought to do and what he can do is terrible. The book traces how these two world views change the purposes of government, society, science, and philosophy. Must comment that this book parallels the the book, Last call for Liberty by Os Guinness, one author a Jew and one a Christian. These two books are not in conflict but complement one another.