#146. Shortest Way Home: One Mayor's Challenge and a Model for America's Future
#Pete Buttigieg
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Shortest-Way-Home-Challenge-Americas/dp/1631494368/ref=sr_1_20?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736452&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-20

I remember seeing this author for the first time on a TV interview and thought he was just on as a novelty appearance. But, listening to him made my jaw drop, finally, someone who talks intelligently and dose not condescend to just dish out boiler plate campaign speak. Though I never give political donations, I went right to his website and gave him a donation. This guy needs to at least have a seat at the table. Then another never happened when I bought his book. Again, blown away by what I read. From the very first paragraph, I knew that this was not only going to be an informative, interesting read, but an inspirational one, from the standpoint of highly crafted, expert writing. I urge anyone reading this to read this book and take today coffee money and send it to his campaign. Getting money out of politics so we can get more quality people to run is a front burner issue for me and the author is the real deal.

I am from Indiana and I had heard of the author before he announced that he was considering running in the 2020 presidential election. He is not simply a long shot and he has become a David in a field full of Goliaths. With that said, he clearly has the background that can appeal to people from nearly everywhere in the United States. His degrees from Harvard and Oxford are impressive. The author was a Rhodes scholar and was deployed to Afghanistan and he talks about going to nearly every county in Indiana to shake hands and talk to people. The author is young enough to have the energy to campaign all over the country. I would recommend reading the sample of this book, if nothing else. You can get a glimpse of South Bend and the way that it has changed over the years.

Could not put this book down and the author comes across as authentic, humble, witty, brilliant, and extremely likable. This book is so unlike the other books I have read by the aspirational Democratic politicians of our time seeking the 2020 nomination. In contrast, it is a journey written from the heart by a keen observer of life. The author has the rare gift of policy acumen and warmth. Would not be at all surprised if we are witnessing the beginning of a long, fruitful, and inspiring career in national politics and let us all hope for that.

Before I read The Shortest Way Home, I admired what I knew of the educational, and professional choices of this author. The book shows that this was part of a life strategy built on service in politics and the military. The author records the details and outcomes of a variety of challenges he experienced as Mayor of South Bend, all with analytic detail, an appreciation for building networks of shared values to get things done, and a loving commitment to the people he has served to date. This is why he will be a great presidential leader. The book shows he has the fundamental experience and a quiet, confident boldness to commence this leadership now.

While the age of this author is younger than most candidates seeking high national office, his experiences in some realms are greater than many now running. His personal story is a good one and I agree with many reviewers that his relationship with his future and now husband is a highlight. For me, the most interesting sections were in the second part of the book when he clearly presented the day to day city challenges of problem solving when working the the citizens of South Bend, colleagues in government and the state of Indiana. What in almost any other context might seem dry which streets get to have certain names, was complex and quite educational. In both public and private arenas, he listens carefully and clearly values the many different opinions of others. According to the ideas of this author, his formidable mind and his willingness to find a fair and just consensus is badly needed. When I lived in Chicago a long time ago I had visited South Bend a few times but never thought that it was as interesting a city as it is now. In a way this book is also the mayors valentine to his city. His rational voice and his goodness are badly needed beyond his beloved city.

I am in love with this author and I will likely never meet him in person, but I already share an American story with him and in this we are kindred. This author elucidates the world and simultaneously imagines it better. He is exceptional at sharing his vision of what that means. He is even better at including the visions of others in what he foresees. The author is not griping about what was lost and he sees little point in the incessant grieving that rots the soul of humanity. The author extols the brilliance of the sun that rises every morning and the possibilities it brings. He illuminated a river that we might notice its currents as it flows through our lives and he celebrates the cumulative wonder each of us adds to the choruses of the life. For Pete, greatness is not something reclaimed, but something exclaimed each and every day. He adds vitality to the future becoming and may we bid him welcome.

I just finished reading shortest way home and it is one of the best autobiographies that I have read in quite some time. It was honest, thoughtful, optimistic, and inspirational. The author exhibits a wisdom and in depth understanding of the issues that is rare in most politicians today. And he is able to articulate his views with clarity and conviction. Please do not dismiss him out of hand because of his relative youth, his geographical remove from traditional power centers or because he has not paid his dues. There are those who maintain that the author is simply not electable. That remains to be seen, but whether or not he is able to secure the Democratic nomination, the voice of this author definitely needs to be part of the national conversation.

I have read several personal memoirs from many people. From those who entertain, those who are been national leaders, and those who have made inspirational and this is special. Knowing just a bit about this author, his rise on the national presidential scene happened as his book came out. This is one of the most endearing, sincere, and thoroughly readable memoirs from someone at thirty seven with wisdom beyond his age. It was related and completely personal. He opens up and this book reads like a special conversation over a beer. Simply a genuine, intelligent, and loving man. It would be the loss of our nation if the author does not rise to a national position. It is Indiana blessing to have him in our state and be such leader. It will be at your personal loss if you do not curl up and read this remarkable book. And doing so, meet a remarkable man, his journey, his husband, and how much we need someone like Pete now, read it.

Before I had listened to this author, I wrote him off as too young and inexperienced to be president. Then I listened to an interview with him and I realized I was totally wrong. I am reading his book right now and am so impressed with his ability to bring clarity to whatever topic he is discussing. South Bend now seems like a familiar place to me and I can see parallels to the places where I grew up in the Northwest. His understanding of history and how we have arrived in the here and now is exceptional. I am almost seventy years old, and now after listening to and reading about him, I can wholeheartedly support him for president. His words bring a certain kind of calm and comfort that make one feel that we would all be in goods hands if he were our president, I recommend this book to all.

I am not all that interested in politics, I find it dry, dull and complicated. This book however is not about politics. It is about the journey of one man to find himself, which happens to coincide with, and be formed by, his time as mayor of the city of South Bend Indiana. Told with beautiful and artistic prose, as well as vulnerably honest self reflection, The Shortest Way Home is a story of gentle bravery, hard work, and creativity. I read this book in one sitting in a matter of hours, the only book written by a politician that I have ever read, and I loved it. I would absolutely recommend it to anyone with an interest in autobiographies.