#147. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life
#Mark Manson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Subtle-Art-Not-Giving-Counterintuitive/dp/0062457713/ref=sr_1_22?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736452&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-22

A great read and a very entertaining romp through philosophical thought by a skilled wordsmith, but I would say the age cut off for this book is fifty. Beyond fifty, you have probably already learned most of the lessons in this book the hard way, however, I can see where it can be extremely helpful for a generation that spends most of its waking hours posting narcissistic fly on their cell phones. The author gives you the blueprints to get your head out of your ass, or out of your phone, take a hard look at yourself and the real world around you, and shed many of the illusions you have been slowly poisoning your life with. If you are a millennial, or even a disenchanted generation, pick up this book. It will give you at least a more healthy point of view. But, if you are over fifty, you are not going to find anything new in here except entertainment.

It is an entertaining read sometimes, but to me, it comes across as philosophies that are the result of aimless musings that materialize as a rant. The title, I believe is click bait and does speak to society need to counter balance an unnatural work obsessed culture, but the treatment is unfocused, time wasting, unprofessional and negative. We have enough pissed off teenagers. Since when does writing as one make you a best seller, where you sit on your high horse as being able to accept your own mediocrity. What kind of leadership is that, the author is correct in identifying our culture of exception. He could very well be the counter balance we need to the messages we receive from empowerment seminars, celebrities and successes. But does he ever question whether this empowerment gives people hope, and helps with the day to day struggle. The tone is judgmental, rather than empathetic and the experience is cheapened by colloquialisms.

Okay, I do not want to be super critical, but I suppose that by giving this book a one star review, I am already doing that. I like the premise and the idea that we need to let some shit go in order to more fully participate in the more important aspects of our lives. What I do not like is that his message ends even before developing that message. This book glorifies the idea of not caring or letting some things go but just stops there. I have read a great number of texts that also see the merit in energy conservation but go beyond it, helping the reader to see the importance of living out their truth and working hard for what they believe in and read any yoga philosophy book for this insight. This book basically just says, stop caring about a bunch of stuff and then leaves it at that. Maybe some folks are into it, but to me it was less than inspiring and not at all novel. I could also live without the redundancy of the word which made the book read like a conversation overheard at a frat party. So, I guess this is fairly critical after all.

Looking at it now I got exactly what I should have expected. The message is pretty banal and vague and at times seem contradictory that do not care about the unimportant stuff, but it is important to figure out what is important, and still do not ruin your life if you screw up the important stuff just learn from it and try not to be too afraid to make mistakes and on and on with more platitudes and truisms. No real insights to be had here, just something that is like a skewed facsimile or satire of a self help book that generously uses expletives, at first endearing but quickly tiring, before getting a little more sincere by sharing anecdotes with life lessons.

Did not make much sense overall. In the beginning, I felt that the author tried too hard to sound like a baby by saying fuck this and fuck that, which was entertaining and led you to believe that this might really be a different self help book unlike other ones out there in the market. But, it really is not and I finished this book scratching my head wondering what the heck did I just read and why did I waste my time not getting anything really valuable or tangent enough to apply to real life. His examples and approach is all too broad and dose not really guide you in any way in my opinion. Some may find this useful and entertaining but to me it was a total waste of time and he was just trying to sound cute with an appealing book title.

Luckily I bought this on audible so I was able to return this with ease. This book starts art okay, it is an exciting premise, do not give a fuck. But the authors examples are long stories, stretched to prove a point and fill up pages I feel. After the first third was over and the author talks about visiting fifty countries and banging chicks every night, it gets really tiresome. I could not even finish this title. The Subtle Art could also be an updated, more version of Do Not Sweat the Small Stuff. I would be curios to see the age ranges of the different star ratings as I am mid forties. This book might appeal to a younger audience.

Just goes to show you, never judge a book by its cover because the title of this book is so much better than what is written inside of it. Reading this book is beyond boring, tedious and painful and definitely gives one an insight into the authors self entitled attitude and how he thinks he has actually figured out what life is all about, not really. For a person like me who has raised boys into well balanced, successful and happy adults, this was a waste of my time. Completely ridiculous book for those of us who are mature enough to have had a lifetime of experiences and who have been able to fulfill our realistic and hard driven expectations and goals, over years of hard work and determination. I had hoped it would be just a little inspirational and deeper emotionally, or even just humorous but sadly did not deliver on any of the above.

I should know better than to fall for books that come with lots of hype because I almost never agree with the masses, but I liked the idea of what Manson wrote about so I gave it some of my reading time. The things mentioned in the book are logical and make immense sense, they are also presented with interesting and sometimes personal anecdotes that really help get the point across. The writing is straight to the point and natural and it flows like a conversation rather than a self help rant. All this, and I still could not find much enthusiasm for the things being said because I find them to be basic things that I have always believed. It did give me a few things to consider and maybe look up, but I do not get why people keep telling me that it is life changing.

The information in the book is not so much my problem but more that it felt like Spark Notes of every other piece of philosophy or profound literature. Mark Manson basically cites Charles, Siddhartha, Buddhism, Existentialism, Shakespeare, and minimalism all mixed together. Cool, as an avid reader I an a fan of all of those things. He talks about living with less and finding values and basically all the hot topics that other self help books touch on just summarized with a pieces of his own life sprinkled to make more personal examples to drive certain ideas home. I do not discount his journey to being a more fulfilled and productive human but I just felt as someone who has read a lot of those texts got more meaning from the original than this book paraphrasing it.

I am an avid reader, but I rarely leave book reviews, feeling as though someone has already done a better job of expressing my opinion. However, I wanted to add the weight of my review since I just can not understand the success or high ratings for the book. I am interested both stoicism and general self help or human behaviorism books, but this books adds no value. It is poorly written, seems unedited, and I would never recommend it to anyone. It dose not cover any topic well and provides no useful insights. It is the stream of consciousness of this author which seems better suited for a free blog post and makes for a very uninteresting book.