#148. Player's Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons)
#Wizards RPG Team
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Players-Handbook-Dungeons-Dragons-Wizards/dp/0786965606/ref=sr_1_25?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736452&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-25

While this edition is a very good game, there are some serious issues with the printing, storage, construction of the books. Two friends and I all got this book, and all three of us had pages that were warped. It almost looked water damaged, but I do not think that is the case. Looking through other reviews of not just the Player Handbook, but also the Guide, and the Monster Manual, apparently this is a common issue with books. Pages are warped, binding is off center, and in the case of the guide, a lot of people are getting copies that have the cover attached upside down. I would love to give this a higher rating, because I love these books, but until they can fix whatever is causing all of these books to be garbage quality, I just can not.

So, the content is wise, it is great and I agree with the five star reviews. But, here is the thing that it is poorly made. I have one, and so do three of my friends, a couple of them have more than one copy. Every single one of them are falling apart because the binding has come apart. We all treat our books with the utmost care too, they are in perfect condition except the pages are all falling out. It is really horrible and the three copies of this series we have in the group are doing the same thing. The books are beautifully written, the artwork is wonderful, but the books themselves terribly made. I am thinking of removing all the pages and transferring them to a binder.

I Am A huge Dungeons and Dragons fan and purchased this book a while back. The edition is great, but after having my book sit untouched and unused for a while I finally began to use it recently. The only problem is that this one along with another copy that my friend has is suddenly falling out of the seams. Barely used, I always take care of my books, yet it is falling out of the binding. This is a known issue now, I wish I had known before. I need a new book, will update with photo when possible.

As much as I like this book, the way that they traditionally organize their material is awful. Mechanics are introduced in a completely absurd order, during race selection, first of the character creation process, you are given these modifiers that you have to go over one hundred pages ahead to find out what they do. It dose not function as a read through because it is all out of order. And it is not a very good reference piece either, because the tables are limited. There is no actual list of Ritual Spells in the book, they are scattered through the list of all spells. Advantage, Disadvantage, new mechanics and terms, and even old ones, there is no easy reference glossary to refer to. Just go to the index, thumb through the book, and scan the page for the one paragraph you need. The system is great, but whoever organized this book as material should be sent back to the drawing board.

Book serves its purpose and the product quality is bad for being brand new. There is some kind of stray mark or botched print pictured that has bled through the shadowed to numerous pages preceding the mark. It dose not affect the ability to read these other pages, but it is an imperfection nonetheless. Also pictured is the binding to the cover, which detached in the first few times of opening the book. Nothing has fallen out and I do not know if it will get much worse, but I expected better quality for the price and the fact that this is a hardcover book.

This edition was not in mint condition when it arrived upon shipment. The last fifty pages or a little more than that were bent or just not even close to right. Let us just say I was not happy when saw it, because the pages that are used for printing characters sheets was so deformed or bent and worse that after I did what I could to make it better, I am still not sure if I ever need to print those off if they will even be readable on the printer just because that part of the book is far from mint like the rest was. I mostly bought this edition for the resources while playing the game with my friends so the likely hood of me needing that part unless I use for my own characters in the future is highly unlikely. But, I do see myself using it for my own characters all the time. It is not bad enough that I felt like I had to return it instantly even though I did think of it. And I plan on still buying a lot more off Amazon even after this one failure on their part. Those pages looked like how things paper reacts once it has been in water, except no water marks just what tends to happen to those pages afterwards.

There is nothing I hate more then clunky rules in a game. After the abomination that was the forth edition, I was looking for a decent rule set that was slightly less expanded then the third edition, but had some sort of ability to customize your class and cover basics that the majority of adventuring groups would try. This system is a complete failure on those parts and it is slightly more bearable then the forth edition, that is the best I can say. After a few short sessions with a group that has been playing for twenty years we are all left wondering if this is some sort of weird beta version. Combat is clunky, skills are super broad, spell variety is not original, and the rules as written in many situations has us wondering what the designers were thinking. What could have been a fun streamlined version became a remedial class of this series.

After the bad reviews on this book we were not sure if wanted to take the chance. But money won out and we did buy two. I am fairly happy to report the cutting and binding problems that other people reported are not at least on our copies and I checked every darn page and they were all there too. However, the pages were occasionally a bit faint on the ink, still readable, but a little disappointing. The pages were a bit wavy also like the books are stored in a damp place, not wet, but not dry either. If these things bother you then most book stores that sell will carry them for fifty dollar and you can check them before you buy, your choice.

First time player of this game and was very excited to make my first character. While reading the book for the first time while making my character I noticed that my finger oils were removing the ink from the pages. I was very unhappy about this as I will likely be using this book a lot. Now I feel like I need to be wearing gloves just so I do not ruin the book. After a successful first game I put this book into my binder I am using, a few days later, I pulled it out to do some reading and the pages are warped.

There is not much I can say about the contents that has not been said already. However, three days after I got the book, the entire spine separated from the cover and the glued black paper is all that is holding it together. This is very disappointing of course, but will be rectified by replacement. I had my concerns after reading so many reviews of books falling apart but hoped those problems were taken care of after the first couple of print runs, alas that is not the case. For a book with a fifty dollar price tag this is very uncool and do not let this deter you though. When I receive an acceptable replacement I will adjust my rating to four stars.