#15. Paper Wife: A Novel
#Laila Ibrahim
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07CGWQMHT/ref=s9_acsd_hps_bw_c_KCKDDGBs_2_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-5&pf_rd_r=FWZ2C3EDEENZFJ304H1K&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=29198429-a82d-4f12-aa86-3387a2fd7213&pf_rd_i=154606011

Before starting this book, I started three different books, and could not finish any of them, some published novelists are purely amateurs and this author is a very talented writer. Finally, a book I could finish and truly enjoy and the author makes you care about her very human characters. The plight of Chinese immigrants was harrowing.

This book held my attention throughout, character development and story line were most interesting. I learned much about the immigration history of our country, of which I was completely unaware. I will recommend this for book club reading due to its relativity to current immigration concerns in our country. Give me your tired, your poor has had many disruptions during our country brief history, sadly.

The story of Mei Ling and her horrendous trip from Asia to California was experienced by thousands. It was appalling, but the determination of so many Chinese to better themselves, study hard, work endlessly and live the dream became reality. Beautifully written and a tribute to so many and I highly recommended.

The author has a gift for taking events that I have only read about in a history text book and giving them texture, depth, and heart. The characters and settings are vivid and the plot is compelling. The emotions stir my own and I am humbled by the courage that permeates many stories of immigrants, and this is no exception. It is a story that reveals much about the complexity of being human and the characters have stayed with me long after I first read the book, thank you for another great story.

Reasons for Chinese coming to the US were varied, but their struggles to succeed the same. In light of our present day immigration issues, this is a timely book and I look forward to reading other novels by the author.

Excellent representation of the life and hard times of our Chinese citizens and the strength of a mother knows no bounds. It reflects our immigration problems and narrow minded attitude of today political climate.

I do not typically leave book reviews, because I am anxious to move onto the next book. I did want to say though, for anyone else who read the negative reviews, it almost kept me from reading. I really enjoy historical fiction of the Asian influence, which is why this interested me in the first place. However, I disagree with the negative reviews, I enjoyed the book very much and do recommend reading it.

Meh Ling, whose family has been pushed into poverty by civil unrest in her native China, is suddenly forced by fate to marry a complete stranger. The protagonist finds out she is pregnant and begins to figure out her new country. The protagonist and her irregular little family learn about America and each other, the bad or the good. This is a fast, fascinating read about a not often covered era in our history, told from the viewpoint of a young woman who is finding her way in her new world. If you like historical novels, don not miss this.

I was enthralled by this book and by the writer obvious respect for doing a good job with her writing. I hope to read books of this author for the rest of my life. May she not succumb to the practice of spewing out books that I have noticed other writers doing. I do not write this to be hateful because I respect writers so much. I believe the author would think about and do due diligence before putting a book in public eye.

I appreciate the writing style of the author and the author sets the mood with descriptions and the way words are put together. Paper Wife is a sweet story and I learned about a period in history and about a culture I knew little of. Any book that has me clicking on more information and images is a winner and I am looking for uplifting stories and this book is a lovely distraction from current reality.