#154. 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos
#Jordan B. Peterson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/12-Rules-Life-Antidote-Chaos/product-reviews/0345816021/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I do not usually write reviews, but the thing is I like the author but this book is so far from the standard he sets in his dialogue that I have to express disappointment. I felt like most paragraphs were rambles that made me think What the hell does this have to do with the actual rule. So much of this book felt painful to read because of how dull and pointless it was. Please do not read this book and it will ruin your perception of this author.

I was excited about this book and the forward by the author made me even more excited about this book. And then I started reading it, or trying to. This is some of the most repetitive, rambling text I have ever tried to slog through. I strongly suggest previewing this book at a library or book store. If you have the same reaction I have had, you will put it right back down, saving yourself time and money. The author, may I suggest a variation on your rule ten. Be concise in your speech, or at least provide a summary paragraph. Make your point and do not make readers dig to find it.

I have listened to the author speak on a few occasions and he sounded like somebody I could learn a few things from. This book starts rather well, the chapter on lobsters and serotonin biochemistry is pretty spot on from what I know about evolutionary biology, however, the book continues with the next several chapters heavily relying on biblical stories, it is not my thing at all being an atheist. The author is a guy who thinks and has publicly stated on multiple occasions that morality can only be constructed upon biblical stories, as opposed to science, which I strongly disagree with. Nonetheless I was hoping this book would give me some interesting new ideas, and it failed to deliver. Secondly, he is not a very gifted writer in my subjective opinion. You may disagree ,but I found his writing incredibly dry and actually boring.

I wanted to like this book, but could not. The author is obviously a brilliant person but the writing in this book was very difficult to get through. Too many hyphenated and parenthetical sections that caused sentences to run too long. Each chapter included examples and stories but their relevance to the chapter rule was not always clear. While trying to sort through the run on sentences and stories of questionable relevance, I could not even remember what rule the chapter was addressing. I did learn some things from this book, but I did not enjoy it and struggled to finish it. I am an engineer so maybe that explains my difficulty.

I appreciate the sincerity and conviction Peterson maintains throughout his book. I found that those things that resonated with me really resonated. That said, I found his argumentative style irresponsible, as the author would often cite data from scientific studies and jump right into drawing parallels with literary archetypes, often from ancient texts. I imagine the author would not consider this a problem, exclaiming, that is the whole point. In my view, it is a problem because if one is not intellectually equipped to parse the comparisons between literary archetypes and hard data, one could easily be led to believing science proves some of the archetypes the author refers to. All in all, I felt the book challenged me, especially since I disagreed as often as I did with the views of the world of this author.

I expected something different, while there are some interesting points that really are related to modern life and psychology most of the time, I felt like the author is so fixed on the bible. Some passages are just too crazy and I wonder how a scientist can have such primitive beliefs and mix them up with facts trying to make a point. In the end, you could probably cut out some religious nonsense and a lot of words and you would have a pretty nice book about the twelve rules.

As far as the steps themselves, and thus the book as a whole, it is tough to know who the audience is for this who he thinks these rules apply to and could benefit. I really do not think it is everyone, and I think the author at times claims there is a universality to these ideas that anyone, with any background, could implement and find immediate success from. Because at the end of the day, we are all just sons and daughters of Adam and Eve, cut from the same cloth, and this deep, embedded evolutionary language at all our core transcends any present day individual contexts, environments, and experience. Tough to read, tougher to feel like he said anything meaningful for most of the time.

I like and respect this author, but this summary must have been written by someone for whom English was not their first language. Even the cover has incorrect English like An Antidotes to Chaos, that is just the beginning. The individual chapters have been reduced to incomprehensible bullets. It might be fun to buy it to read it out loud so you and your friends could say what on earth did that sentence say. Again, I like the book of this author, although it was a little verbose, but this summary is terrible.

This book was recommended to me by a friend and I mistakenly order the summarized version of it a few months ago, and enjoyed it. So I ordered the full book, which is what I meant to do the first time. Too many bible references for me and I get bogged down with all the references to the Bible and philosophers, many of whom I am no longer familiar with besides their name. I struggle to make it through some of the rules. I even tried the audio version and the actual author is the speaker. It was worse than reading it on my own. This book is just not for me, but you may think it is wonderful. There are some interesting nuggets in there, but I will be donating my copy to the grocery store bin sometime soon.

The author is a formidable guy, and he has many interesting ideas, the thoughts on gaining competence and facing adversity resonated for me. This book was totally worth my time but some ideas are not so great. There is rigidity to some of his constructs, particularly around gender, that seem unhelpful to me. I also do not think that you have to be a follower of an organized religion to live a very valuable life. Finally, the author seems to be guilty of hubris. Maybe anyone that writes this type of book has to have deep faith in the validity of their worldview.