#155. Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind
#Yuval Noah Harari
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Sapiens-Humankind-Yuval-Noah-Harari/product-reviews/0062316117/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Although a lot of the claims the author makes seem rather unsubstantiated, the book is a tumult of wonderfully provocative ideas. Many of these ideas, particularly those about human evolution and cognitive development, have been around in various guises for years. But this book does a wonderful job bringing together many disparate theories about who we are and how we got here, that it is worth the read. I use the Kindle highlighting feature a lot when I read, and for this book I think I highlighted something pretty much every page or two.

I was blown Away and this book was packed full of history and stories and thoughts of how the world has been since the beginning of time. I am not as smart as I would like to be and I tried to keep up with all the history and stories, but I really enjoyed how information was presented at such a high level, something I am really bad at doing. I would love to have dinner with the author because I have so many questions for him. The author is like a walking computer database but with feelings. Thank you sir, I really enjoyed this book. It has caused me to start thinking in a different way or at least to back up and look at what I have been looking at from a higher level or with a broader lens. I do not know and I am not good also with saying what I want to say, but great book.

This book ought to be on every college or even high school curriculum. The subtitle, A Brief History of Humankind, does not mean that it is not very deep and very, very intense. Anyone interested in learning how the world works, and why it works the way it does, needs to read this. Giving it an honest read, put aside all your cognitive biases about everything, will open your eyes, and free your mind so that you can think critically. Since this is a book of actual facts, some readers in this post truth world might have a hard time swallowing it. Anyone finding this book difficult to read probably dose not understand what facts and evidence are. These days, the line between facts and opinions very nearly dose not exist. This book draws a hard and desperately needed line between the two.

An interesting and thoughtful read for history buffs, and really for non fiction readers who might be curious about how we as a species got here. It is a commonly held belief that we humans have rightfully emerged to rule over all the creatures of the earth. This book really makes me think about this assumption, and not because the author explicitly questioned it, but rather because throughout, he implicitly suggests that our common belief in our own evolutionary brilliance may not really be a fact existing in reality anywhere outside of our own fertile imaginations as a species. I would love to hear other readers thoughts on this, so that makes me think this is a great book club choice.

Really though provoking book, as an agnostic atheist the scientific findings and concepts in this book did not bother me, they only further solidified my own beliefs, however, I can definitely see how this would be a difficult read for those who are devout Christians. I think this book is best suited for those with an open mind and willing to accept scientific evidence as fact. The subject matter is heavy and I often had to pause after each section to digest and consider the content before moving on. Definitely this is not a light beach read, however, the author does an amazing job at writing it in such a way that keeps you intrigued and interested. It truly is a fascinating topic on its own, but the author takes it a step further by including cliffhanger like leads into the upcoming chapters that makes it a fun read.

The popularity of this book is well deserved and it is indeed difficult to put it down. This is a guided tour throughout human history with a short glimpse into the future at the end. Our guide, this author, is an expert in the subject and a masterful teacher, not only capable of simplifying human history for the layman but also skillful enough to make it highly entertaining and educative. Every chapter wakes up a sense of wonder, and sheds new light on what before seemed only mundane and uninteresting. Inquisitive, insightful and illuminating, reading this book was like having a meaningful and edifying conversation not just with a brilliant historian but with a world class philosopher and thinker. This book deserves a spot in a bookshelf reserved only for the very best, those whose reading also become a life changing experience.

As a student of history and a fiction writer, it is rare that I find a book that ensnares the scope of the human story in accessible language. I have written many papers and too long theses in historical prose. Each time I have lamented their restricted audience. This book is such a rare find, erudite, accessible, and engaging, our story is told for us all. It is easy to understand that as a species, we have accomplished much, however, it is equally easy to understand that the stakes are high for our way forward. Progress is an imperative that must extract from the environment. Psychologically and physically, are we capable of surviving what remains of a toxic world that we will have created. Right now, we can predict probabilities using algorithms, but we cannot divine cause and effect. By the time the story is done, I am not sure the answer will have any relevance to the successor.

I would love to know more about the people who did not like this book. So many say his book was based on opinions and I understand why they would say that. However, so much of the history I was taught in school was straight up opinion or lies and this is the first book that has offered a wider perspective. I often found myself blown away at the connections. It connected things for me I could not. I think everyone should read this book. Do not allow the bad reviews to dissuade. A lot of the negative reviews seem to be the result of cognitive dissonance. No one wants to have their beliefs placed under a microscope. Some people do not want to admit that animals are treated poorly, capitalism is a religion and human presence destroys ecosystems. You gotta be open to read this and sometimes this book will make you sad, but it is worth it. Dive in this book, if something angers you, ask yourself why.

It is a rare treat to read a book that feels like a seismic shift in my life. Surprisingly, reading The Expanse was the last book I remember giving me that feeling. This book is a very different topic since it is a book about us humans and their past, present and future. This is a remarkable book that analyzes the interconnected forces at play that drove human history to where it is today. From farming to capitalism to science to religion. We truly are a miracle of nature, awful and awesome. This is a book I wish every single person in the world would read. It really makes you see the world and humanity in a different light. Or, at least, in slightly different lights. One word of warning, this definitely triggered my existential angst.

Those reviewers who focus on the imprecision of this book are, I think, missing the point. This book is a work of popular historical science. I put the emphasis on popular historical. In five hundred pages, the author has put together a reasonably coherent history of people and some of the bases for being concerned about the future. One can certainly quarrel with philosophical bent of this author. However, this is not a doctoral dissertation, rather, it is a fine primer or refresher on the subjects that the author thumbnails as he tries to make sense of this book dominion over and destruction of the planet and other life forms. It is easy and accessible reading and if one is prompted by it to investigate some of those subjects via more rigorous sources, that is a good thing.