#156. Life Will Be the Death of Me: . . . and you too!
#Chelsea Handler
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Life-Will-Be-Death-Me/product-reviews/0525511776/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I am giving this book a five star review even though I have not read it, do you know why. To off set The reviewers below who gave it one star even though they did not read the book. Just because you do not like the author dose not mean you should give something a bad review, that is not right people. This author keep fighting the good fight, and you are appearance on the Howard Stern show today was fantastic.

I have read all of the books of this author and preordered this one. Read it immediately in one sitting and I think the people that are off put by her, touting her wealth is missing the point. We have eyes, we know she is successful, quite the opposite I think she was trying to find out, while all of her success or money is great, why is not she still satisfied and at peace. Coming from a large family I can relate to her upbringing, we also laughed a lot and still do, so I very much enjoyed their dynamics. So very sad she lost her very close brother, I can not even imagine. Overall I liked the book, appreciate she is wanting to do better by becoming involved. A lot of talk about her dogs, which did not really do much for me, but realize they are her unconditional loves. I also know I will be in the minority here. This book was sort of disjointed, much like my review.

I think the other reviews on here are reviewing this author as a personality from the past, rather than her current book. This book is a little less funny but a little more real and in touch as she discusses working through the repressed pain from her brother death and father subsequent absence. In this book the author acknowledges her bouts of out of touch reality in the recent past and struggles with finding herself and true meaning in life. All with that satirical slight self deprecating humor I have come to love from her books. This book has already inspired me and motivated me to take another hard look at my own self and the world we live in. I really fell in love with this book and appreciate the honesty and vulnerability, and of course your humor, the author really show that humor can be a subtle and effective art.

This book is not throwing wealth in your face as one reviewer put it. This is about understanding the mindset of where a celebrity is coming from, of having everything done for them, to fixing that personality flaw and getting better at being a human being. She has to explain the bad, the wealth and privilege, so you understand her journey. It is true that this book is very much unlike all of the other books of this author. The voice, the narration is still the same. The author as funny and ruthless at picking on herself as she is with anyone else. I really enjoyed this book and I was prepared to just like it since it takes guts to self reflect and show your flaws, even more so in book form to the world. You might not like the author and what she represents, but you should at the very least respect her for being so honest and open with the world with her flaws. All of us play holier than thou behind a keyboard and point fingers at everyone and how terrible they are except for ourselves, so read the book and self reflect.

I am a big fan and I have read all of the books of this author and enjoyed all of them. This one is her best work by far and she is honest and genuine. Although she goes into depth about serious and intimate topics, she still keeps her conversational and humorous tone throughout the book. When I read it, I could hear the voice of this author speaking the words. The author stayed true to herself and her comedy while diving into deeper topics and personal stories than her other books. I felt like I was in the room with her in her therapy session. I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to hear honest stories in a light and conversational tone. The book is easy to read and I finished it in two days. It is beautifully written and easily one of my top ten favorite books.

I have read all of books of this author, and this one was by far the poignant but also the most real. The humor I have come to know and love from her books is present, but she also tackles much more serious topics as the death of her brother when she was nine and her lifelong struggles with trusting those around her not to abandon her. Much of the book is told through her interactions with her therapist as she makes discoveries about herself and who she is. Life Will be the Death of Me felt much more like a memoir and a turning of chapter in the life of this author. I enjoyed it in a different way from her other books and I was not hysterically laughing quite as often, but I felt more connections to her story.

I can identify so much with the struggles of this author in being who she is, owning her shit and accepting how she became the author. The author is an inspiration and she speaks for other strong women who have chosen not to have children and play by the old rules of the white privileged patriarchy. The author decided it was time to dive deeper into and own her deep rooted childhood issues and sense of abandonment. She is authentic, strong and vulnerable and especially when it comes to Bert. This book made me laugh out loud as well as look at my own baggage.

This book seemed to be nothing more than honest reflections on trauma, grief, empathy, therapy, drugs, and, dog. It is honestly everything I did not know I needed in a book from this author. I saw this author on her last stand up tour and if you have been a fan since the beginning you will still hear her distinct voice in every chapter, but the message is a little different in a good way. We also had a similar reaction to the election and share a similar disdain for a particular politician, which encouraged me to look a little bit deeper at my habit of voicing my outrage and opinions instead of taking action. If I had to sum up the main point of the book, talk less, listen more, empathize always.

Have not read the book yet as I am getting a free copy on her book tour but I am also just leaving a five star, because I know the book will be iconic. I stopped reading most of the negative reviews but did someone seriously take the time to review a book they wont read and judged her solely on a late night show appearance. I always admired Chelsea for being raw and honest. I like Fallon but I always thought he was personal for his audiences. The reviewers coming in with a different perspective makes sense, but to actually take time to troll someone, people can be so self unaware.

Loved the audio book, the author cried for real recalling the pain of her brothers death and her mothers suffering. The reviews on here that are from people who have not read the book are painfully obvious. The author is not bragging about her wealth and she is mocking it, she is sad and tender and self deprecating. This book is a heartbreaking examination of real pain. The author can seem admittedly caustic and longs to change. There is a small scene with an orange and the simple gift of an orange almost broke me. The critical reviews are from angry people who definitely did not read the book. The author is learning, is not that the goal.