#157. White Fragility: Why It's so Hard for White People to Talk About Racism
#Robin Diangelo
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/White-Fragility-People-About-Racism/product-reviews/B07D6XQQRY/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This book is crap and the author feels the need to keep bringing up the fact that she is, apparently, the perfect organizer. She talks about herself entirely too much, and once I got the part about getting rid of all of my books I was like, nope. I understand her concept that you should throw away anything that dose not make you feel happy when you touch it, but some of her ideas are ridiculous. Get rid of most of your seasonal clothes and only keep things that can be worn year round. I live in Maine and it gets cold in the winter and hot in the summer, so explain to me what I am supposed to wear. I had heard some pretty good things about the method of cleaning and I just wanted to declutter my house a bit so I bought this book, but I feel ripped off, this was not the one for me.

I could not get into the writing style and only read the bold font. I got some take away but nothing that really moved me to the point of actually wanting to get rid of everything in my house. I am not a hoarder but I do think I have to much stuff. I am not going to have emotional connections with everything in my house. I am not going to say my phone brings me pure joy or my silverware is life saving. I still need these items regardless.

This was not life changing or magical for me and it gave me food for thought, for sure. I do not feel like Marie has a very complicated life, a demanding career, a spouse, children or aging parents to care for. My house is not a wreck and I am not a pack rat, so maybe it would have more dramatic results for a truly messy person. I definitely liked some of her ideas, but found her attitude of aiming for perfection was not for me. The idea that this had to be an all or nothing project, done from start to finish within months, was incompatible with my own life. Small steps and small chunks of time are all I have. And I think most people do not have a few months to devote to her method. Still, there were some good ideas in the book, worth trying in small steps for improvement rather than life changing magic. In a nutshell, I would say she feels like you should throw almost everything away. It is good to be reminded that we do not need a lot of stuff, but I can not quite go to that extreme. However, if you take what you like and put some of her ideas into practice, it can still be helpful.

Was so excited to read the book and she seems to talk about herself a lot. The content is very redundant even within the same section. There is a lot of fluff. I think this book could have been a very good pamphlet. This book is poorly written and drags on and I can not believe I am writing a review like this considering how excited I was to receive it. Pretty sure I will be throwing this book away, complete waste of money.

I had several friends recommend this book so I muddled my way through it, and I must be honest, I will probably use maybe ten percent of it, the rest of it was just plain weird. Talking to your house and clothes is just too strange for me. The way the author worded things was like as long as you were tidy everything in life gets better. I am by no means a slob, I can not stand dishes in the sink and stuff on the counters, but the author acted as if you are tidying the way she says, you will have a perfect life. Like you will lose weight, acne will clear up, relationships will be better, you become a stronger person etc so this book is a little bit cuckoo, no it is a lot cuckoo.

Some good concepts, but assigning human emotion to inanimate objects is silly to me. Unpacking your entire purse every day and putting the stuff into a drawer, seriously. Why not just unpack the remains of the day, but leave your wallet in the bag. I found it very hard to concentrate on the message because it felt very childish. I know different cultures look at things differently but this book does not seem to fit the usual every day working person.

The book arrived in good condition and I just disagree with most of her teachings. I wanted to love it and I really did, but the author is an advocate of throwing away anything that you do not love. I am sorry but I just cannot stand this idea, please either have a yard sale and make a little money or donate it to a place that will give you a tax write off. Do not fill the landfills unless it is actually trash that none else can use. Please do not waste resources and things that someone else might love to have, other than that I do agree with her minimalist style.

It was interesting to a point. It did give me a good idea about grouping like items together throughout the house to see how much you really have. I used this on my mother and her figurines. When she saw all of them together on the dinning room table she could not believe how many she really had. However, I found other tips not practical. Getting rid of everything you do not love can be a problem when it comes to practical items that you need. Also her thoughts on not putting away clothes in the attic. I am sorry I live in New England in a very old house with very small closets. Winter clothes a very bulky and need to be put away to make room for summer clothes. However, each season I do go through all my clothes and if I did not wear something then it gets donated.

My review is for the workmanship and the lack of quality of the book itself and not the writing or the author. I find it comical that a book that prides itself on the magic of tidying up and art of decluttering and organizing would use a company that would send such a terrible quality book to its customers. I waited an unusually long time for the book to be shipped, only to receive the worst quality hard cover book I have ever purchased. The printing on the spine, front and back covers is crooked. The book cover itself is warped and dose not even close. What a piece of junk, poorly manufactured book. I am so disappointed and disgusted in the quality of the book I received, that I no longer am excited to even read this book, what an utter disappointment.

I have heard so much about this book from the media and from friends that I wanted to read it for myself. The ideas the author presents are generally sound and helpful, but this thing is so repetitive. Feels like she took a Real Simple magazine article and turned it into a book by repeating herself incessantly. Or else this book is as though it was transcribed from a seminar where the repetition is not so annoying. As a book, it is a snore. It also happens to be so girl as to be an almost offensive read for a man. The author seems to be talking to a tiny group of cutesy oriented women who can identify with her personal obsessive weirdness. I do believe tidying can be life changing and I do believe it is valuable to reduce all your clutter and consumption of material goods to things that actually bring you joy, the core ideas work, but this book does not bring much joy, it is pretty tiresome.