#158. The Fifth Risk
#Michael Lewis
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Fifth-Risk-Michael-Lewis-ebook/product-reviews/B07FFCMSCX/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I have been a fan of this author since another book came out. This book is rambling and makes little sense, like many who dislike President Trump, the author can not come up with anything truly valid, and this story ends with a long drawn out tale about how great the weather service is and how people should place more faith in the government. The author tries to make the case that Trump and his administration are incompetent and do not have a clue during the transition process, but the truth is that very rarely is a transition smooth unless it is the Vice President assuming office like Bush from Reagan. Again, this book is very disjointed and straining to make a case but falling far short.

What a disappointment, I have read and thoroughly enjoyed every Michael Lewis book but I guess all good things must come to an end. These anti Trump books are so played out and I would have expected this kind of writing to be beneath him. I guess not though and maybe the author needed the money. We all know this theme sells which is why everyone and their dog is writing one. The worst part is that a fair amount of the info he opted to include in this book makes me seriously question the non fiction aspect of his other books. We all know that history is always up for interpretation and that as more time passes the more our own memories can become victim to remembering events differently. I just always liked to believe that Lewis controlled for this inherent bias. It is going to be difficult for me to enjoy the books of Lewis going forward and I thought he was better than this.

The author started out pointing out significant disruptive issues with President Trump transition team but somewhere along the way he lost his train of thought. He transitioned to championing the good works of some significant unsung heroes in various government agencies and ended the book without making a point. The anecdotal information about these heroes was interesting and needed to be told but they were woven into a narrative that ended up going nowhere. I am glad I read the book, but I feel a little disappointed about what was trying to be said.

So I purchased the book as it promised to get into the details of what would become the Trump transition fiasco. Well after getting into it the book it ends up pandering to big government bureaucrats. While I feel there were likely issues with the Trump transition I just do not appreciate this author, who has written some great books, swinging so far left. I personally feel government is too big and impacts too much of our daily lives and the unaccountable agencies like to perpetuate their existence. If the head of the US makes it his main job to get as many people on food stamps as possible, that is a problem. You may like this book but it had too many parts that made my stomach churn.

Before I bought this I was under the false impression that this would provide a detailed, apolitical look at the value provided by some of the often overlooked departments of government, but this book is not. This book is just another anti trump screed penned by yet another leftist, very disappointing. This book is also very short and you can read it in about two hours. This would have been better served as a long format piece on some website like Post rather than a standalone book. Even if you are a leftist, there is nothing for you to learn here that you have not already gotten.

Michael Lewis used to be my favorite author. I was in the habit of buying his books without even reading the descriptions because I like him so much, but I will never buy another one of his books. This is written with an agenda for disparaging the Trump administration without objectivity or balance. I have worked in the federal government through several administration changes and some are good and some are bad, but none are smooth. Lewis is not a journalist, this is a Hollywood hit job looking to be another movie. The irrational hysteria, lack of objectivity and not understanding for what is important to most Americans is why Trump was elected.

This author must have gotten in a hurry to publish and stopped writing about a third of the way through this book. It starts out more or less interesting and on topic, but wanders badly, quickly, into fascination with the wonderful things government employees do, and away from the transition and the Trump administration which are totally absent from the last large part of the book. If you are interested in the troubles of the Trump transition or functions, this book will add little to what you already know. Just read fear twice, you will learn a lot more. I am disappointed, since the author is my favorite.

I have read several of books of this author and have liked them all, but not this one. The book ended so abruptly with no summing up that I spent some time exploring whether my copy had been digitally truncated, or something. Lewis is a good writer, and what I read interested me and pulled me along, but no final chapter, no summing up. My guess is that this book is a classic example of what often happens with good writers that the editors and publishers let them get away with sloppiness they would never allow from a not so well known author. The book badly needed a summing up to recapitulate the overall theme and whole point of the book. Not the best work of Lewis, in fact, the worst I have read.

I really thought this book would have a summation, a point. It starts out seeming to be a clone of Fear by Woodward. It is like they exchanged notes with each other and it seems tacked on to a book about something else. Then suddenly we are at the various agencies learning a lot, but really, not about Trump or his impact, other than the fact that none of the appointees really cared about the job they were appointed to. We met a number of interesting people without touching upon the Trump impact, and then there was no more, no unifying theme, no ending. I thought maybe half the book had disappeared, just like with fear, I am waiting for the rest of the book.

I did finish it and found it did not really conclude, just ended, mercifully I must add. The author so hates the president that all he really does is show a few great things that the government does and there sure are some and imply that because of the change in administration there will be no more great things done. But every administration ends, new administrators take over the various departments, and some are poorer than the ones they replace and some are better. The only clear point made is the view of this author that the federal government is and ought to be in charge of almost everything the state governments do, and the opposite of what the founders tried to design.