#159. Outliers: The Story of Success
#Malcolm Gladwell
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Outliers-Story-Success-Malcolm-Gladwell/product-reviews/0316017930/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=2

As someone whose work is in the field of academic psychology, the heavy reliance on anecdotes to support his theories was frustrating, however, I can certainly respect his ability to find connections where others have not and to follow through with writing up his findings in a compelling way. Taken as interesting stories about successful people, I can appreciate this book, however, from the perspective of a researcher in psychology who prefers to rely on appropriately powered studies and solid statistical analyses to learn about the conditions under which people excel, I am not crazy about it.

Mark Twain once said there are three types of lies that lies, damned lies, and statistics this book was written from a point of view that environments control the destiny of everyone. Although I agree that environments have great influence on a majority of peoples lives, the author dose not explore all the true outliers that do not meet his hypothesis and ways those individuals were capable of doing so beyond his ten thousand hour theory, which I agree. A final note is that read this book with an open mind and understand that you can use to statistics the prove any hypothesis if you do not show all the data.

I read Outliers and The Story of Success for a school summer reading assignment, and I thought it was an interesting book but there were parts that I found pretty boring. I did feel like I learned a lot throughout the book and was able to take away a lot, which was the point of the assignment. But there were chapters of the book I found very hard to concentrate because it was not very interesting. I felt like the book started out interesting, which I liked, but then towards the middle I found myself actually dozing off when the author talked about certain topics I was uninterested in, but over all I would recommend it to someone who is interesting in questioning the theory to success.

I feel like the author presents an intriguing question, but he offers no control cases, except for the case of the character. As a scientist, and someone who looks at statistics daily, I am underwhelmed by assigning validity to a phenomenon without having a control group against which to compare the results and the author fails at this. And, I feel he is making conclusions based on personal emotional attachment to the history of his family. This book is less a complete concept and more a hypothesis with an incomplete examination of his thesis. This was more about an indictment of the haves, and an excuse for the have not to assign their locus of control to external forces, than it was an exploration of what makes the successful truly successful, tepid work at best.

The author argues that success is shaped by the environment we grow up in as much as any innate skills and knowledge we have. While I buy into his argument, his approach of substantiating his position with a few select examples is rather weak. I could easily find counter examples for each one he presents. When he does cite evidence such as research on musicians supporting the ten thousand hours of practice, then I find his claims much more compelling. The book is an easy and enjoyable read, although towards the last third of the book, it seems like he ran out of things to say and digresses away from the main point of the book.

Well written, entertaining, and provocative, two problems that obviously the author selected certain situations that fit his premise, there are tons of folks who succeed who do not come close to fitting his model. And, while the first half of the book moves briskly, the second half slows to a crawl. The entire book could have been written in one third the space. That said, it is still a very worthwhile read because of the fresh perspective.

While the concept is intriguing and some interesting facts are revealed, the the author is long winded in some areas. For example, during the chapter on cultural differences corresponding to plane crashes, though interesting to a degree, I found myself repeatedly checking to see how many pages were left in the chapter. If you have looking for inspiration on how to become an Outlier, look elsewhere. The book actually paints a picture of the opposite. I was left feeling that I am at the mercy of fate and that the stars must all magically align, rather than feeling inspired to change my own actions to be a stand out in the world.

I had great hopes of this book, but was very disappointed. The experiments and tests were so open to bias and the conclusions sweeping or not grounded in what had been established by the tests that the book lost all credibility for me. I give as an example, the experiment involving students responses at being inconvenienced in their passage along a hallway. The sample is too small in number, too narrow in population selection, also the interpretation of responses was entirely subjective and we are not given the methods and benchmarks for measuring responses. I do not remember anything else about the book except feeling irritated by the testing and conclusions. If something dose not interest you, you will not remember it. Maybe I am hypercritical because I have supervised a number of students, but I can think of so many wonderful authors, often unsung, from whom I continue to learn.

I have to preface this by saying I am a psychologist, and have taught psychology. This author is understanding of the value of both the Terman study and psychological testing is so poor, that it is clear that he only used this information to make his point. He does not understand the role that a culture plays in the development of any person, there is no right or wrong culture, it is what a child gets from his or her environment that helps develop the potential. He cites a charter who was successful with children, but leaves out the drop out rate. He wrote to make his point, he did not write to clarify anyone thinking. He needed to understand far more about what he was writing. I read this for a book club, and if this is their idea of important reading, then I am going back to a new author, at least its escapist for an afternoon.

The first half of the book was very intriguing, and following the path of some of the most successful people in the world to see how it happened is very interesting. I could have just read one hundred more of these stories. While reading it I started to think about every time I achieved success, and all of the variables I had no control over that helped lead to that success. The hockey league observation was also very intriguing, when the book started to get into rice farmers it started to lose me and the story seemed like it was reaching. The airline pilot observations, while intriguing, seemed like it belonged in another book, starts off fascinating, finishes off kinda weak.