#160. Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End
#Atul Gawande
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Being-Mortal-Medicine-What-Matters-ebook/product-reviews/B00JCW0BCY/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I did not find what I was looking for based on the title and notes, maybe I am looking for answers no one has. The subject matter of this author is limited to what it is like being in hospice, which I am familiar with already, having lost my husband to cancer recently. Maybe I will go back to it later, but I put it down without finishing it. It seems that what I want to know as well as other readers, is what the death experience itself is like and I do not think we have access to that information yet. Although that is not the fault of this author, I think that the title and notes are somewhat misleading.

While the author artfully presents progressing many of the ways that the transitional passage of aging that I would call assisted living, have evolved, he leaves out those parts of end stage living where someone is losing their life slowly as diminish take away this ability or that ability to the point where the body wears out rather than losing a battle to cancer or some other terminal disease. I wish he would have concentrated more on the conversation and the questions to ask rather than the struggles when there is not a conversation or we do not know the questions to ask. I would have appreciated more reference information to groups pioneering in this area instead of all the articles he read.

I though it had some informative anecdotal stories about people and how they lived there final years. I also like his personal discussion of family and how they confronted mortality, the epilogue may be the best part of the book. But all in all, it was a fairly predictable and obvious story. Yes, the elderly prefer a warm assisted care environment to institutional care and yes, people would rather have privacy and home like surroundings to a share room in a hospital like facility. We all want to, die with our boots on and not some prolonged lonely bout in a nursing home. I would have liked the book to have more insight on the financial drivers in the poor state of health care for the elderly. Why does society spend or rather, waste the majority of health care dollars on end of life care that is futile when death is a certainty.

This book is an academic piece about embracing hospice and other more humane, non extraordinary measures in the West, great. I fully agree, but it is not helpful to read while going through the dying process with a loved one. This book was recommended during my father death by several people so I picked it up. See earlier academic comment and it is a great book for stimulating an abstract or academic discussion on end of life issues. I and the loved ones around me needed resources that were much more in touch with the personal level and three months out we still do.

Disappointed, I had expected that the author would provide more information on alternatives to aging in place or in non residential environments. The vast majority of his book is about people who are terminally ill and die and I found it to be more of a clinical study than a useful reference book. Quite frankly the book I wrote back has far more useful information.

This topic is both timely and relevant in today culture, where the new millennial will likely be even less concerned with the ultimate fate of their aging family members. The book, however, spends way too much time explaining, in depth, what happens to the human body when abused by poor diet, drugs, over the natural course of life. To me, it is unnecessarily graphic in its depictions of what happens to us as we continue to age and subsequently decline, but then, it was written by another person, so perhaps I as naive on this point. After about the third chapter, I tossed it.

This is a difficult subject to write about but I found it enlightening and inspiring in some ways and the author is speaking about sickness, age and death. The changes in life expectancy and medical treatments have been remarkable but a grounded way of dealing with loss of functioning that comes with injury or illness or just aging is not in most of our cultural attitudes. There have been some heroic efforts made to improve senior living but often times the impersonal assumptions are dehumanizing even in a good senior independent living site. Living well and dying well seems to be a very independent achievement. The author spends too much time talking about individual case histories, some of them very discouraging and sad. I as a person a true old age was left feeling awakened to a little I did not know, but also discouraged and made sad, and not ready to use his advice very much for myself.

The matter of the book deserves a five star qualification that does it make any sense to artificially prolong life in some cases that doing so only prolongs suffering for patients and their families. Is it better to let patients die with dignity and surrounded by loving people, specially if they have asked for this way of exiting this world. The author presents examples from around the world and past times supporting death with dignity. The only problem that I find with this book is that individual cases are developed too detailed to my taste and one piece of the story here and some others after fragments of other people stories have begun and that is confusing.

The best that I can say about this book is that there is nothing really wrong with it or bad about it. The author talks about how physicians respond to terminally ill patients and uses his personal experiences working with his father and the doctors of his father to provide examples for us. The book contains good advice and is well intended, however, it tends toward triteness, since it expresses ideas that most reasonably intelligent and educated people in our society already know. There are worse ways you could spend your money, but on the other hand, I would not advise you to put in a rush order for your copy.

I thought there would be more on how we age, and not so much on how we age, and what it takes from your family to accommodate this change. The father of the author is used as one of the examples. He lead an exemplary life, and due to the fact that he was a physician and his wife was also a physician, they had a clear understanding of the stages. Not everyone is blessed with insight, nor the financial ability to accommodate the decent of an elderly person. My sister who does not have such means, keeps saying to her kids, just put me in the snow when the time come.