#165. No Visible Bruises: What We Don’t Know About Domestic Violence Can Kill Us
#Rachel Louise Snyder
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/No-Visible-Bruises-Domestic-Violence/dp/1635570972/ref=sr_1_50?qid=1559117686&s=books&sr=1-50

I was stuck in a fifteen year relationship with a woman obsessed with herself. Now we are in divorce and I picked up this book to help myself understand more clearly what was going on. I thought I was alone in my family struggle with this person, and I could not believe so much information is synthesized about this category of people. The book described my wife exactly as she was, and helped me realize that the decision I was was the right one. Narcissism is a disease, spreading very quickly in modern society. To counter that, the book does a great job giving you suggestions what to do in order to escape from the deadly trap of a narcissist. Language is simple and understandable and I leaves you uplifted and empowered. I loved it and would recommend it to anyone researching this field, or being in a relationship with a narcissist.

First off, I understand that people who have been targeted by narcissists are angry, and might gravitate toward this book title, however, the book itself is actually fairly thorough, well balanced, and not as based on emotion as the title might suggest. This book addresses the complexities of both narcissistic behaviors, and the behaviors of people who are targeted by them. The information is useful in pinpointing unhealthy beliefs and behaviors in our society, our work lives, and our personal relationships. While it is not a holy grail, I find the book very helpful, thought provoking, and well written.

I am seeking divorce from my husband, discovering the depth of his deceptive nature and the danger he put me in the whole time I knew him, it was all too much to take in. Infidelity, money lies, fake personality and could go on and on. Reading this book has been life changing for me and I can see clearly for the first time since finding out about the truth of my marriage. I have a long way to go to recovery, but this book will most definitely be part of that journey for me. Thank you to the author for keeping things like this in an easy to understand read and my mind has been awakened.

I absolutely devoured this book, it was spot on and the advice was practical and extremely valuable. For a long time, I thought I was the crazy one. I feel validated and armed to kill my narcissist and thanks so much for taking the time to put this information and I want you to know how much it has helped me to see myself more so than the narcissist I live with. I am in the process of taking my power back, thank You.

Excellent Book, this book absolutely changed my life. After being abused and humiliated by my psychotic former lover, I have been a complete mess. Full of anxiety and paranoia which I could not understand and I went from being suicidal and homocidal to now loving my self and appreciating all I have in my life. After reading, I was so motivated and I can say this book initiated my Self Love journey. If you are looking for understanding about your own behavior or why others have treated you or your loved ones with so much evil. This is a great book to enlighten your understanding and will teach you How to Kill a Narcissist.

My favorite book of all Narc books I have purchased. Fantastic job at explaining the dynamics behind narcissism, what difficulties to expect and perspectives to take on to assist in healing. It goes beyond surface level and helps you understand not only the situation, but yourself and how to move forward. It is not always black and white with a hard stop. I feel like whenever I second guess myself, this book always puts me back into check and I hold this dear to me, this author is our friend.

This book is a must read for anybody who has a narcissist in their life. I read it cover to cover in a day and intend to go back through to highlight and mark pages. I also ordered an additional five copies to send to people entangled with my narcissistic monster. The author puts this personality disorder into understandable terms and clearly explains why you have to starve the narcissist to death. It is incredibly hard to not respond to the attacks, but has already made an impact. Right now, she is freaking out about losing her narcissistic supply and has ramped up her efforts. Hopefully, over time she will go away and leave us alone.

I have coworkers who live in a narcissist regime. I opened this book and ran through the checklist of behaviors and saw so many things that explain the relationship. One is the Targer, I bought her a paperback version. I would love to see her finally get her true self back. This book dose not talk over your head. I have read self help books that seem more like a thesis than an actual book designed to help. It can be a tough road disengaging from the narcissist regime, but this book lays out some clear and concise advice along with steps to help the journey. My wish is that everyone who lives in a relationship like this will find their way out to freedom and lasting peace of mind.

I am glad now to finally have the information provided in this book to let these narcissistic people go. To be happy that they are moving on from my life I am glad the author has actually got an in depth understanding of the narcissist and how to defeat them. I am actually worthy of love and respect regardless of what they actually said about me that is total lies kudos to the author for finally giving me inside and perspective on this matter that I struggle with for so many years.

All I can say is this is an excellent book, and anyone and everyone who is interested in this subject should hold up and read this second only to the book of Hare, Without Conscience, there are so many out there and a lot of them say the same things over and over, this is different, and excellent learning. I would recommend this to anyone who wants to really know what Narcissism is all about, whether it be a parent, partner or friend, it is all covered here and I feel very strongly that this is one of the very best to read. I am sure you will learn a lot from this little book and not have to keep reading more and more books on the subject, this is a fantastic book.