#166. The Kindness of Strangers: Penniless Across America
#Mike McIntyre
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Kindness-Strangers-Penniless-Across-America-ebook/product-reviews/B004183KI6/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This is one of the most outstanding, memorable books I have encountered in a long life of manic reading. That is why I was flabbergasted when the man came out flat footed and admitted that the idea of traveling in the South terrified him. Starting in the Northwest, the author trusted his life to strangers without regard to race, creed, color, or teeth to tattoos ratio, but the prospect of crossing the Mason Dixon Line made him go weak in the knees. His reception in Kentucky was the epitome of Southern hospitality and friendliness, yet he high tailed it to the coast so fast we would not have been able to lynch him if we wanted to. After months of travel and hardships designed to expose and dispel stereotypes, he fell victim himself to the oldest American stereotype of all, the vicious Southern redneck. The author made all kinds of excuses and he was worn out. His girlfriend missed him and His feet hurt, nobody was fooled.

This book was better than I anticipated, largely due to the nonjudgmental observations of the author of those he met. He seemed to find the likable qualities in almost everyone. It was also interesting to see how cathartic it appeared to be for strangers to tell another stranger about their past wounds as if they had been waiting for the time they could unburden themselves of their past hurts and have someone only listen and acknowledge their pain. To me, this was a brave exhibition of human vulnerability by the author. This book reminds us we all have carried, or are carrying, a heavy load regardless of how well some of us hide it. It also reminds us that we are so much more similar to one another than our outward appearances may suggest. The kindness of strangers is all around us. I was not surprised that those with the least to give, gave the most, that is the beauty of empathy.

A few times, we cringed at some of the characters and close calls with trouble, but most of the time we were touched and inspired by the kindness shown, especially by many of the strangers who had lost a lot in their lives and each one of them affected the author for the better and many of them told him much about their lives. The author honestly expressed the emotions he experienced interacting with these people, from fear and disgust in a few cases, to empathy, sorrow, gratitude, admiration, happiness, and even love. The author was also open to changing his opinions as he encountered many types of people and places which he had never encountered before. I especially enjoyed his depictions of the heartland from Montana through Tennessee, but while most of his experiences were positive, he dose not sugar coat them. The author notes that people have their flaws and quirks himself included but that they are still capable of kindness that deeply affected him. The book makes me to do some soul searching myself, would I have shown kindness to this hitchhiker, how much am I willing to step outside my comfort zone, how am I affected by the generosity of some of the characters who helped him even though they possessed very little.

Just finished this book and found it very interesting. Two years ago, I met a woman from Europe biking across penniless, yet walking and hitchhiking lends itself to more perils. In some ways, I found it sad that so many people across our country are dealing with so many troubles, but beautiful to see so many who had so little giving what they had. I am curious now wondering how this walk affected the life after wards of the author, how did he look at life, did he grow in his faith after meeting so many Christians, and how did it change his life, an excellent read.

I like to be inspired in a realistic way and this book did that for me. If this guy can traverse across the country with no money, completely dependent on others to feed and shelter him, then surely I can take a few risks myself. What was even more fascinating then the accounts of how he cleverly managed to stay safe and keep moving, was the way strangers let him into their lives so readily and so casually. Apparently, one can count on the kindness of strangers. In the end, It was the Ordinaryness of events in this extraordinary journey that made this book compelling and is what encouraged me to read on as he traveled on.

Very interesting look at America, the author was a journalist who traveled all over the world before he decided to chuck it all and walk penniless across America. Over four thousand miles later, the author has a book to write. Traveling back roads through the best the US has to offer he finds that the people with the least to give are the ones picking the author up and allowing him to stay in backyards or spare bedrooms. It was very interesting that a few towns interviewed the author for the paper and he even gave speeches to church congregations and school children, something I am sure they will remember forever. During walk of the author, he thought about marriage with his girlfriend when he stayed with people who were in love for years only to find out at the end of the trip that his girlfriend had decided she liked living alone. Not sure what the author is doing now but it must be very hard living in a large city again after finding that life is pretty good in small towns, very interesting book, hope you decide to read it.

A very enjoyable book about a man who thought he was living the American Dream, nice home, great job as a reporter, wonderful girlfriend, but feels something is missing from his life. He is also a man who admits that since a boy he has been afraid of, everything. He decides to take a journey, walking across America, from California to North Carolina, with no money and a backpack. He goes on the smaller roads to see true America, relying solely on the kindness of strangers and nature. The people he meets, the stories they share and the ways they help him make this such a fantastic read. I loved the line where the author noted, the people who have the least to give seem to be the ones who want to give and help the most. A beautiful story, looking forward to reading more of this the books of this author.

I could not put this book down and finished it in one day. It is the most uplifting, phenomenal book I have ever read and I am only sorry that the book is over. I learned so much about myself from reading this book. I am so grateful to the author for having the courage to bare his soul and relate the experiences of his journey. This book has renewed my faith in the human race. All you see and hear is bad news today. I feel that I have lived through the best years of America and hold much fear for my children futures. After reading this book I know, even twenty years later, there is more good than bad out there. I feel like I have taken a spiritual journey today. This book will always be a part of me now, the people in it and the author have really touched me. Do not pass this one up, you will miss out on something really beautiful.

I could not wait to turn the page to discover, who next would be a kind stranger. I have to make a small comment regarding Asheville, North Carolina. It is a shame that the writer just missed going to Asheville, but made comments, in a kind of negative way. I am not from there, actually I am also from San Francisco, but I happen to be in Asheville for a wedding and was incredibly impressed with how modern, diverse and progressive this town is. It felt more like Berkeley, California, than in the middle of North Carolina. The town had Coffee Shops, art galleries, specialty shops, Dead Head shops, music shops, good restaurants, performing arts theater, a lovely park, street musicians and an open air band stand. It was clean and friendly and this liberal, felt right at home.

Very interesting journey and story and this story validates what I believe, that among the many peoples in this nation, some of whom are criminals, Grinch, manipulators, mauraders, abusers and selfish, there are many who are warm hearted, genuine, loving and caring, who will help strangers, give them food, shelter, and transportation, sometimes at their own risk. I am one of those who helps others, asking nothing in return. The author fell among many good people and observed what I also have observed. Those who have little with help you with all they have, while many of those who have much and could help more will not lift a finger nor give a crumb to those in need. The story is a commentary of our times and please read and enjoy his experiences.