#167. Factfulness: Ten Reasons We're Wrong About the World--and Why Things Are Better Than You Think
#Hans Rosling
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Factfulness-Reasons-World-Things-Better/dp/1250107814/ref=sr_1_53?qid=1559117686&s=books&sr=1-53

Great news, the circus of facts is in town. We all like to be fooled but with facts feels much better. The headline reads, come to experience the illusion of knowing the world through facts, come fast, and the numbers are changing. Our ignorance about the world is measured here with fact questions like that how many girls finish primary school in developing countries. Let us hope that the circus lovers have read Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. Humans are pretty bad answering such questions without triggering our slow thinking system. So the author is exploring the limitations of our carbon based computer to measure our ignorance, worse than random. The methodology is bad but the book gets better, reusing the own argument of this author about the world. Then the author goes about telling interesting discussions around world facts also sharing basic applied statistics that he renamed to fact. Things are indeed getting better in the world and maybe even teenagers around the world can already write computer programs to these fact based questions and keep us updated.

Naive and narcissistic, first the authors ask you not to trust in average values alone. A few pages later they present only averages, without any ranges or confidence intervals, simply because it suited their preaching. Showing a diagram where the the axis values start from forty percent, instead of correct value of zero gives misleading interpretation. The authors did purposely those errors which they blamed others. Text is very narcissistic since the author spoke to these and these important people, did this so well, nobody else had ever done this before. The author presented himself as such great scientist that I needed to go and see his academic publishing records. Not very convincing, actually very modest and I started to doubt Swedish universities criteria for professorship, which should be among the highest in the world, a waste of money.

I have enjoyed and used the website that the author create, and think that is a brilliant tool to help people understand data, grasp and communicate facts. That is one thing, and writing a whole book multiple pages long around thirteen charts, is another. The book has no depth, there is nothing here that will make you think or reflect about anything, that would not have happened anyway by browsing and playing with the website. The stories are superficial, the insights are so elementary, that it makes the book look like a sort of self help advice. Great for kids, and for teenagers to help them grasp the basics of data visualizations, and get them acquainted with some facts about the world. Nothing more and do not waste time or money here, locating this book in the thought provoking section of the bookstores is an insult to human intellect.

Half of this book could be good news, but it depends upon the size of the sample. What if there is only two choices. I read the book because I wanted to believe it. I will keep the book because I want to refer back to it when I hear opposing claims. It is not an academic book because of the lack of references to be able to follow up on the claims. It always bothers me when the reference is a web page and the date of the page is the date the page was viewed, not written. Statistics about good news is hard to come by and that is why you should buy the book for your teenager.

The main thesis of the book that many, uncommonly known things are improving, is of marginal use at best. One can pick almost any point in history and find a previous point where the condition was worse, as an analogy that the standard of living in Roman times was exponentially better than tribes of nomadic hunter or gatherers. This is not a particularly useful or shocking revelation, nor does it follow that such a relationship existed between the peak of the Roman empire and the next several decades as it fell into decline. Furthermore, by choosing to focus attention solely on specific, statistical improvements, the author precludes discussion of statistical regression or analysis of negative outcomes not measured by statistics. Even mention of the limitations of statistical measurements get short shrift. I did not feel these were intentional oversights, more like the result of insufficient understanding of economic systems and the cause or effect relationships involved.

I think the writer would have done better making his point by providing more of his personal experiences while traveling abroad. The example of one of his med students hurting her leg by trying to stop an elevator door from closing was an excellent way to illustrate the Be Careful Of What You Think You Know phrase. I also felt that the review of cataclysmic thinking and journalism was a bit willfully naive. It is not simple human nature that causes journalists to exaggerate and print only the worst and it is their bread and butter. However, the authors intent to remind us all to think rather than just react is a welcome one in the social media age.

While this book purports to explain that most people are wrong about how awful the world is, the author quickly states that well over half of humanity is living in abject poverty. Perhaps this is a big improvement over the last couple of millennium, but it is a staggering fact taken on its own. Most people are hungry much of the time, have scarce access to education, health care, or clean water. I do not consider that cause for celebration. Never even bothered to finish it, since his logic was so incredibly flawed. Very disappointing that anyone would recommend this book, much less President Obama and Bill Gates.

The main theses of this book is that, the world is improving and is much better than what most people think. Though in final chapters the book presents some very big risks to humanity. Following the idea about our successful situation, the author presents a popular cognitive psychology about our inappropriate instincts that are responsible for this failure to perceive the right situation and suggests some common sense rules how to overcome these instincts. For example, do not refer to one number, such as the number of babies death, but rather compare it with the data of previous years in order to reveal the trend. The main drawbacks is that the book is repetitive, and includes many long stories which contribute very little to the main argument and it could be easily transformed into a short paper.

The authors make good points about poverty, global health, and global population trends, but they are hypocritical. They are strong advocates for looking at facts and ignoring selective and exaggerated reporting, but then they liken climate change skeptics to plane crashes, toxic waste, and crazy dictators. Predictions are not facts, but the authors think the predictions made by climate change models are facts. There are good reasons to be skeptical of climate models, not the least of which is that they run too hot and the field of climate science has been politicized. The authors commit the same kind of logical errors that they warn against.

Seriously, I want to like this book. I like numbers, numbers are important, we need much greater numbers literacy among, everyone in order to regularly audit our corporations, our politicians and make sure that their priorities are really our priorities, and that they are executing those priorities on the up and up without cooking the books. Our fear of numbers are a huge part of how we got into the mess that we are in. There are moments when I am cheering Rosling on, like the concept that context matters and we can not view numbers in isolation, but the author can not seem to get out of the way of his own ego and agenda. Which is what and I can not figure it out. That we can continue with business as usual because everything is awesome.