#171. Presidents of War
#Michael Beschloss
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Presidents-War-Michael-Beschloss/dp/0307409600/ref=sr_1_65?qid=1559180653&s=books&sr=1-65

The author brings us into the White House to watch each of the presidents who presided over Americas wars as they struggle with managing their wars. What we learned in history classes in high school really cleaned up these president handling of war. War is a messy thing at best, and acting as commander in chief during wars is almost beyond human abilities. The story of the war presidents we lived through is especially emotional to read. Do not expect this book to arouse your patriotism. This is a large book, which takes a long time to read, even when you do not read the many foot notes, but well worth the effort.

I read Presidents of War for my church book group and the discussion is not for another ten days. I am not disappointed in the book although I would have liked to read more than a few paragraphs about the current war in Afghanistan, but the book sort of left me disappointed in the American people for tolerating the current situation, in which the United States has become just like the European great powers of the eighteenth century whose example the Founders strove to avoid. The one way in which the book could have been improved would have been with a greater focus on Eisenhower and Nixon, who ended wars they inherited even in the absence of clear victory, a skill sadly lacking in contemporary Presidents. To avoid turning this into a rant, I will cut this review short.

I enjoyed the book overall and I love US history and this book provided an in depth overview of the challenges war time presidents have faced. This book was what I consider to be a hard read. It takes allot of concentration to fully digest the reading material. There are many names, places, events mentioned in the book that have no context so I often found myself doing a lookup on the name of the person mentioned to gain a better understanding. I would have preferred it have been written in an explanatory fashion as opposed to endless quotes. That said, it was a good read and those enjoy history will likely get allot out of it.

I expected this book to cover things I had read in biographies of the presidents and of wars in our history, not so. This book gave insight into the personalities and concerns of the presidents dealing with our wars. There is occasional reference to historical events but the book tells the reader what it was like to be president during those times and tells us background of decisions made by presidents during wars, often not reported in the papers. It was an eye opener for me and well worth the time spent reading it.

This is one of the best books I have ever read. The author does a great job of explaining how Presidential power has shifted through times of war and throughout the history of the United States. Be warned, however, the lengths to which some Presidents use, or misuse, their Executive power is frightening. However, the book puts in perspective much of what has happened in the USA history, helping me to realize that our country has come through many chaotic, troubling times.

This book was ten years in the making. As Beschloss states in his acknowledgments he discovered that writing about presidents of war required that he research each president as if writing a book on each one. So, this is a book of nine mini biographies pertinent to each president of war. It is thoughtful and filled with new information. Definitely read the footnotes, they add dimension to each president, some serious and some quite humorous. This is a serious study of where we are now that communication is so rapid and technology is so advance militarily. It examines the relationship of presidents and Congress and the role of Congress in declaring war. Well written as always by a very talented and serious historian.

Great insight into the pressures, influences and situations each past President was put into during a state of war. History as we sometimes know it, leaves out quite a bit of the details on why a decision was made. The in depth research and perspective of this author brings to light much of the forgotten past and gives you a front row seat to the action. I highly recommend this book.

This is a masterful author, provides brilliant and compelling narrative and analysis of events, wars, and leaders that have shaped our nation. Five strong and insightful reviews on the book jacket are provided by highly respected authors including historians, university leaders and Pulitzer winners. One wishes it were possible to gift a copy to all our elected and appointed officials.

The author dose not leave the reader with a good impression of President Polk, either, and its fitting. For greats like Lincoln and Roosevelt, the author finds flaws there, and manages to reveal their greatness in ways that feel fresh. Personally, I liked the more critical look at Truman than we usually get, many stopping with the end of WWII and ignoring his responsibility to large degree for the unsatisfactory treatment of Korea, including problems that would continue for over half a century. The author also finds a mixed legacy with McKinley, Wilson and Johnson and I find the author too kind to Johnson and to willing to accept the motives he gave as his reasons for going to war. The author backs Johnson up, and I am still a skeptic who also feels that, despite the Great Society Johnson pushed through, yet with mostly ideas from the Vietnam War, we should put Johnson for the bottom of the list, but this is the book of the author and he has the expertise on Johnson to make his case. In the long run, Roosevelt was the last president to start a war with authorization from Congress, as the Constitution requires, that is a hugely important point that is not an academic one. If nothing else, this book calls out for the importance of Congress reasserting its role and insisting on it.

If anyone reads history anymore and some days I doubt it and I would highly recommend this book. The author does his usual excellent job of making history come alive. His major theme throughout this US history is that we have continually increased the power of the executive branch of government. With each war the US has engaged in, the author lays out the circumstances in vivid detail. The detail given really let us you feel like a fly on the wall in the midst of momentous decisions. The author makes the point that presidents are influenced on many sides, some not having the country best interests at heart. Concentrating all of this power in one person is more than risky. I enjoyed this book for the rich stories told but also for the relevance to today US and read it.