#172. Braving the Wilderness: The Quest for True Belonging and the Courage to Stand Alone
#Brené Brown
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Braving-Wilderness-Quest-Belonging-Courage/dp/B074G5P4WN/ref=sr_1_66?qid=1559180653&s=books&sr=1-66#customerReviews

As a sixty year old woman of strong mind and body but still struggling with getting out there and trying not to feel invisible in a room full of people, I found this book to be useless. I have watched some of TED talks of this author and found them inspirational, so I bought this book. It seems to be all about her, her views, her heroes. And really, I get that she struggled as a child and found success, but most of us will not find our calling and become a celebrated friend of Oprah. Many of us have had that one great friend or spouse and have lost them, leaving us in the wilderness. Many do not and never will have a loving, supportive significant other and great kids. Even finding a true good friend is so hard these days, so how to be alone, how to brave the wilderness, I do not think so. No help, comfort or good advice in this book, just the broad view of the author on how to deal with a world getting harder and harder to live in happily.

I bought this book because the author was interviewed on Morning News and she is impressive but the book is not. The author writes over and over again about research but her research is investigating such nebulous terms as true belonging or integrity without presenting what researchers typically do is to define your terms objectively and measurably, undertake a scientific sample, specify your research procedures and instruments. Consequently, this book should not be taken as social science research findings. Some ideas seem thoughtful and reasonable but the findings are not the real research findings.

I found much of the content in this book old and stale and carefully packaged to create a surface level sense of safety. This book implies the wilderness is a new phenomenon when in reality people of color have had to navigate all the things she describes for generations. As a sociologist she knows this, so the book reads like she took survival strategies from people of color and watered them down for her target audience of white, middle class women and men. The author introduces concepts like authenticity and courage from a very shallow perspective and provides tips that are often either confusing or insulting. The author brags that she is an experienced expert in sociology yet completely avoids providing a realistic, ethnic and cultural context that reflects the society she is supposedly helping her readers navigate. The author introduces concepts like authenticity and courage from a very shallow and borderline racist perspective then provides tips that are confusing, insulting or designed to create a false sense of empowerment, still, the fans will love it.

I thought this book would be something else and I find myself in a particularly lonely place in my life, and thought this book would address me personally. Instead, this book is about not judging others and getting politically polarized. This book is not that I do not think those are important issues, because goodness knows they are , but that is just not what I thought I was going to be reading about. To be fair, I only read half of the book, but after glancing through the remaining three chapters and the book looked like more of the same.

I really wanted to like this book and I have read all of past books of this author multiple times. Each book is like eating an elephant of wonderful data and introspection, filled with life giving challenges and hope. Each of my copies have hundreds of notes and highlights in them. I have even taught and entire men retreat on Vulnerability, and it was wonderful. This book though, I am not sure what mark she was trying to hit with it, but in my opinion it did not hit any mark. Half of the book is simply other famous people stories or research proving her points, very few stories of actual participants, save one memorable one about a guy berating his father right after he promised to be kinder to him. The rest of book is completely uncharacteristic of her depth and wisdom and feels really shallow and overly politicized. I feel this book was rushed, the data she did not really know as well, and the point was missed. I sense that running the four companies now that she talks about in the book have diluted the ability to really focus on life changing writing, which is her gift, in my opinion. I will now go back and read The Gifts of Imperfection again.

This book has a strong start and my takeaway is that one needs not to be afraid to speak out and speak up the beliefs. Speaking out can bring you to a lonely place but one would be surprised to find other people in the same situation. As well, the author emphasizes the need to share good and bad experiences with others so as to create the emotional connection so scarce these days and the last chapter could be shorter.

It is okay and I have read all of her books and I was really looking forward to this one, but it was a disappointing, very little new material. I hope she does not become one of those authors who start writing the same stuff over and over again. A friend asked me about it and I said, get it at the library, but do not buy it. This one is very political and I happen to agree with her political ideology, so it did not bother me, but I was not expecting a political book. This book is also going to date the book and her other books will stand the test of time and this one probably will not. If you have never read any of work of this author, you will probably like this, but if you have read her other work, you will find this to be disappointing because it is not as good as Rising Strong, Daring Greatly, Gifts of Imperfection, or I Thought It Was Just Me.

I enjoyed her other books and even when I disagreed with her and her books were readable and well written. This book is just plain awful and white guilt, political rants, weird ramblings, recycled, irrelevant research, disjointed writing. Best I can tell this book aspires to be a guide for surviving when your political candidate loses. That is fine, but I feel duped because I did not realize that was the direction her book was headed. I could not finish this book and I am done with this author.

So I really liked another book The Gifts of Imperfection of this author, so naturally I thought this would be a good one. But the whole white guilt thing at the beginning was too much and her bemoaning on about how white people would think the author is black because of her name, like, I did not even think about it until the author wrote about it. I guess the beginning just ruined it for me and I definitely would not recommend this book to anyone. I guess it is popular because she is obsessed with Oprah and feels bad about her white privilege. I do not know the whole book was just way too liberal and scheduled for me to actually respect it.

I had high hopes for this book, unfortunately, what was showcased as a self help book for how to stand on your own, actually turned out to be a politically biased, opinionated novel lacking real data and facts. I had to stop halfway in because this book simply did not resonate and the author tries to associate loneliness and not fitting in to the current political climate, with a very one sided perspective. Most of the tangents she goes on do not even tie back to the original theme of the book. I am sure some of her other work is great, but this was disappointing.