#174. The Obstacle Is the Way: The Timeless Art of Turning Trials into Triumph
#Ryan Holiday
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Obstacle-Way-Timeless-Turning-Triumph/product-reviews/B00K5JUNSU/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

This is overall a really good book and it was a great introduction to Stoic philosophy for me, however, the tone is very focused on promoting modern busy culture instead of stepping back from it. More like a book to help you use Stoic techniques to do better at what you are already doing instead of figuring out what is really important. It seems very focused on doing big things in life and most of the examples given are the same old tired people we have heard about a million times, mostly rich people, military generals and CEO. I guess for pop culture, those examples are fitting. I would have preferred something more introspective in tone, but that just me.

I am having a hard time getting into this book and it is written with so much enthusiasm and emotion, that it is an obstacle to wanting to continue on with reading it. The preface and introduction are written like a Tony Robbins motivational seminar, which I was not expecting. I was hoping for something with more meat and less fluff as the book has been billed as being inspired by the great Stoics. My plan to get through this book, take a break from it. Maybe when I attempt again to read, I will not be bothered by the overly emotional and exuberant preface and introduction.

Sure, this book is full of advice that, if applied, would benefit you, always be persistent and focus on the process. The human mind is not capable of keeping all of this in mind and adhering to it. That is just not how humans work and holiday gives us instruction after instruction on how best to conduct our lives and achieve our goals. I guess we should walk around with a scroll of these instructions and constantly be reviewing it, and even then it is just far too much jumbled together to make it work.

I would not recommend this audio book and the layout seemed disorganized, I did not feel like I had a clear idea on how to proceed with any of the advice, generic and vague, I thought. If you are looking for something to build resilience and mental toughness, go for The Mind Gym by Gary Mack and Discipline Equals Freedom by another author, much better. The audible title does not load properly. The whole time I listened to the book, it said I was at zero seconds, and it said that the whole book was zero seconds in length. No way to see how long the book actually is, or how far in I am. I did quite a bit of troubleshooting, but could not correct the issue. This has only happened with this book and this is likely a problem with Audible formatting with the data of the file, and not a problem with the actual book or its content. I did not base my rating upon this issue at all, I think the problem lies with Audible.

Bunch of platitudes, surrounded by stories of supposedly great people, though many of these people who are held up as models are only seen as admirable for the fact of having made money, a dubious qualification. And overall, the book espouses a kind of new thought positive psychology bent, which is fine as far as that goes. But this book tends to step into emotionally dismissive waters with some regularity. Your problems are all in your conceiving of the situation, you should simply be able to not react with negativity. Perhaps some of these are laudable aspirations, but the representations here suggest that achieving them is a far simpler matter than it really is for most people. Of course, this book is probably why the book has sold well and it says what people wish was true, rather than what really is true.

The book is clearly pop of this author. The one who founded Stoicism, had some funny ideas about, say, a woman role. You will not find any of that funniness here, instead, the book reads like politically correct motivational speaking. More than that, the author, Ryan Holiday, has worked with folks who do positioning and manipulation as a business and they sell advice on positioning and manipulation. Check out his wikipedia page sometime, there are lavish mentions of his work with Robert Greene, not to mention his book which is on media manipulation. And, while the author claims to be reformed in that book, the number of five star reviews for that book that are very short and are not verified purchases, and contain nothing more than the information in the dust cover should at least give one pause, especially for a book that has serious ethical connotations. I mark up my books when I do serious reading. There are plenty of things circled and underlined that are good things. The only part where I crossed things out and wrote no was that, one or twice, the author implies that the ends justify the means. It starts off innocently enough, with ignoring rules that were designed to keep you down but quickly moves into asking forgiveness instead of permission.

Glad I got this as an in expensive book. The key themes of the book is quite good, but they can be clearly summarized in just a few sentences. The is just too much extraneous verbiage that beat around the bush and obfuscate the several really good points that need to be made. It seems like the author is getting paid by the number of pages written. I would have gladly paid the same price for the key material condensed down to ten pages. I suggest reading a review of this book and you will likely get all you really need to know from that.

Uses lots of examples that seem to be his read on actions or examples of people using a principle he is trying to convey, but I am not convinced he had the evidence to support those claims. Also, seemed a bit repetitive at times and overall good message and I definitely some of the points made were good reminders to say, not let your perception of what you can do limit what you actually do, but nothing here is particularly insightful. A better read for maybe the twenty something reader who has not really thought about these concepts or principles before.

A mostly interesting little book on applying some principles of the stoic philosophy to your life. It is quick read, well written, and has generally good advice and practical ideas on dealing with adversity in life and work. Overall, however, there is nothing new here and I think one could go directly to the writings of the ancient stoics for the same information, particularly Marcus Aurelius who inspired this book. Also, the ancients write extensively on virtue, the pillar of stoicism, which is sadly neglected in most modern interpretations, including this one.

Man, I really expected to like this book and talked it up like crazy, and it has many successful fans. The author begins by promising the reader that it will not be a book full of meaningless platitudes, and then proceeded to fill the book with them. I did read the whole book, and for the life of me I can not see how this book would be helpful to all of the people, organizations, and teams that apparently got so much out of it. It is indeed full of meaningless platitudes, and to me seems to be written like too many books are, that is repeating concepts in different ways to stretch a paragraph into a page, a page into a chapter, and ultimately, a chapter into a book. That said, so many more people like it than dislike this book and almost none of the readers feel the same as I do about the book. So if you think this book sounds up your alley, this book is not very expensive for the kindle edition, so maybe give it a try. I really had to struggle to get all the way through this book.