#178. Of Mice and Men
#John Steinbeck
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Mice-Men-John-Steinbeck/product-reviews/0140177396/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=2

Great crossword puzzle book and this is my forth in the series, generally very clever puzzles, many with themes. Many of the clues have either multiple possible answers or double entendre that make you dig for the right one. The puzzles tend to shy away from answers that would require a crossword puzzle dictionary, a friend with a PhD degree in some esoteric field or Google. After all, if a puzzle requires using any of the three former help mates, what would be the point of doing the puzzle in the first place. Nope, these many times require innovative and sometimes out of the box thinking. Yes there are a few clinkers but the vast majority of the three hundred puzzles are enjoyable indeed. And if you do them in ink it adds that much more to the flavor, enjoy.

This is by far one of the most odd and interesting books I have ever read. And of course is not that exactly the Monterrey that Steinbeck attempts to describe. Short, direct, and without unnecessary flair, the author writes in the style attributed to Hemming way but makes it somehow more perfect. The directness transports you and you simply are there. Portraying an odd collection of America down and out during one of the darkest times of American society, we see what it is truly like to live for today and accept that while it is what it is, it becomes what you make it. The quirky confident characters set the prototype in modern pop media and are just as memorable and lovable.

This short yet powerful book is still as unsettling now as it was when I first read it many, many years ago. The characters are rough around the edges with a desperate longing for a place to call home. The story takes place in California where day laborers find their way from ranch to farm making money to survive. George and Lennie find their way to yet another job to escape the trouble that inadvertently finds Lennie. Despite their struggles, the two men maintain hope and optimism that their hard work will eventually resolve their difficult life. The language used in the book is indicative of the characters historically and socioeconomically. Ultimately, the ethical dilemmas remain through the years, is it okay to do the right thing for the wrong reasons, or the wrong thing for the right reasons, is it right to judge and decide what is the best for the greater good.

As a tale set in the Great Depression, this book highlights the relationship and journey of two migrant workers. Throughout the novella the reader gets an impending sense of doom and this is caused by the constant reminder of Lennie and George big dreams to one day own their own farm. As the reader learns more about the two protagonists, the atuhor clearly shows the themes of friendship and loyalty as George continues to stay with Lennie even through Lennie is such a burden. These basic themes hold true throughout the entire book even in the end when a shocking turn of events is caused by an act of sympathy and care for a friend.

I love this heart warming tear jerking book and I read it for a class assignment. We discussed each will defined characters and applied it to psychology. This is a short story that took me from curiosity to oh my goodness in two sentences and it has some twist and carries a solid plot to the end. The author had a way of grabbing my attention, also to make me look at my own emotions, the way I think, and how I react toward others. I highly recommend this book for a short story and to find a sense of hope.

Another great read and George was a good person deep down but, he may have taken on more than he could handle when he agreed to watch out for Lenny. It could also be said that this decision of Georges gave him purpose in his own life to be responsible for this child like adult. George seemed to treat Lenny rather coarsely and as though he would rather he was not around but, it did not take long to understand George needed Lenny at times too, just to make himself feel better about himself. What you could see through the whole story was George would not allow anyone to harm Lenny no matter what he may have done wrong. George also had a power of control over Lenny that Lenny did not even have over his own decisions. Lenny made several big mistakes along the way but one could only expect that George could only hide so many before the day would arrive when Lenny would have to pay for his own actions and that is exactly where this story takes us the journey is exciting and, sad. I walked away feeling the story ended as it should and there could be no more victims without the blame being passed to George in the end.

The book is thought provoking and there are so many emotions that can be sources of lively discussion with others who have read the book, anger, jealousy, fear, hatred, promiscuity, loneliness. The author is remarkable, the story has not aged, it is still contemporary and you can visualize this taking place today. You can sense what is going to happen at the end of the book, I put it down a couple of times, hesitating to finish, but I did finish it and told friends about it. In fact, even friends who have not read it discussed the conclusion with me for quite some time and I have noticed in book stores the number of study guides that are available for this book. It has been taught in many classrooms for years and will continue to be and it is a joy to read such a classic.

The author writes this book with a tone somewhere between matter of fact and poetry, mayhem and contemplation, and philosophy and comedy. The characters of this novel are as interesting, amusing, and heart breaking as its story lines. The character collects and prepares specimens for scientific institutions, gathering octopuses or injecting dogfish with dyes. The character and his men are some bums who live in a building across the way. There is also the Chinese shopkeeper, the madam and her girls, the street urchins, the cannery workers, the artist, and others who live in the sea side blue collar neighborhood. The book wanders from person to person between the bigger story arcs, giving little but rich glimpses of life. The author is pretty honest with how people act and do what they do, and although their characterizations sometimes teeter towards comical, the book never oversteps the line into absurdity.

Back in college, reading Cannery Row was an assignment. I slogged through this book ever watchful for irony and themes and symbols, the kinds of things a professor might ask on a test. At the time I was not impressed with the book and it was too sentimental, too black and white in its themes, and too short on the social significance of Steinbeck greater works, grapes of Wrath and East of Eden. Revisiting Cannery Row after the past few decades was a revelation, scenes and characters that made me roll my eyes at twenty suddenly had new relevance to me in my fifties. What once seemed sentimental was now the reverence of the author for the common man. The author populates the book not with the types of heroes who change the course of history, but the type who are heroic only in getting back up after adversity knocks them off their feet. Nowhere in the book does the author refer to his characters as poor, instead, the author finds in Mack and the boys and Dora and her girls of the Bear Flag and Chong and Doc an abundance of riches. They may not have everything they want, but they have everything they need. From viewing Cannery Row as a minor Steinbeck book, I have come to greatly appreciate the bittersweet lessons it teaches.

It took twenty years for me to pick up this book and I read this absolutely beautifully written, easy to read, book out loud to my twelve years old son and my nine years old daughter before bed. I had to change some of the more offensive words to vocabulary but I did explain to the kids what the words were and what they meant as well as why I changed them so that they still have that knowledge. If you are open with your kids, this was not an issue so please do not let this prevent you from reading this great book to your kids. We laughed and cried out loud together, even my son who will deny it wholeheartedly was crying his eyes out, great experience.