#18. The Rescue (Ryan Decker Book 1)
#Steven Konkoly
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Rescue-Ryan-Decker-Book-ebook/product-reviews/B07GJL19B4/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I have been a long time reader of the author, and always been impressed how his books drop you right in the middle of the action from page one. The author has a unique talent for drawing you into the story without sacrificing other characteristics of great writing including character development and accurate, detailed environments. While murder, betrayal, and revenge may seem like an easy to write to, the author does it with such realism and engagement that you can not help but get attached to the characters.

The author shines with this new thriller that hits the ground running and a complex thriller that satisfies the want for fast paced action and a well told story, the rescue, is a must read. The plot immediately drops the reader into a well drawn world of betrayal, revenge, and redemption. The author writes with such skill, the reader is there on the streets with hero Decker as he hunts for justice, a brilliant story worthy of a long series.

I have just finished reading an arc of this new book of the author and it is absolutely wonderful and this is the first book in his new series and I am sure it is going to be a big hit. I am sure he will have both back story and future adventures to carry him through a long series of entertaining books, looking forward to reading many more books in this series.

The author has used his considerable and specialized military knowledge to build a masterfully layered plot with tortured hero Ryan Decker front and center. This thrilling first book in the author new action driven series tackles issues including the child sex trade industry in the United States. Honestly, this mesmerizing, twisty story was an absolute joy to read and it kept me turning the pages until the very end.

There is a new action hero in town, shades of the heroes of Hunter, Ryan Decker is the new action hero on the scene. The author scores a home run with the first of his new series of action packed, fast moving adventure tales and if that is your genre, then you must buy this book. I have enjoyed all of the books of this author I have read so far and this one is no exception. This book is well written, well edited, nothing to make one say that is ridiculous and I enjoyed every word of it.

I have read most of Steve books and I can read way faster than he can write and the only thing I hate about this one is that he has me so hooked that it is terrible to have to wait for book two. It is also more fun to read about spies and Russians and secret plots than about Post apocalyptic chaos. Those books were good, but this one sure leaves me feeling better, great author in any case, thanks, Steve.

An excellent novel with which to introduce Ryan Decker and the story line developed rapidly and went from tense to intense very quickly. This is one of those twist and turn novels that has the reader thinking they have the plot figured out just before the direction changes and leaves you trying to reorient the facts you thought you had all figured out, looking forward to book two.

This book was a real book not one of those quickie short things where you feel they are just trying to hit a page count. It has been a long time since I have read such a great can not put it down book and this book was fast paced, exciting, plausible and kept you guessing. I am going to read more of his books, thank you for a great read.

This author has unleashed the ultimate thriller action protagonist in The Rescue. Ryan Decker focused on uncovering the truth behind the unthinkable conspiracy that landed him in a federal penitentiary, while leaving his family and friends dead. The pace is relentless and the action scenes are shockingly realistic and the twists and turns in alone are worth the price of admission.

Pretty much non stop action and decent character development with a sympathetic protagonist and supporting cast. I do have concerns about all the books that reinforce our national predilection for a conspiracy culture, which I do not think is good for our country.