#180. The Millionaire Next Door
#William D. Danko
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Millionaire-Next-Door-William-Danko-ebook/product-reviews/B00CLT31D6/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Please, do yourself a favor and read some of the poor reviews before ordering. As a millennial investor, everything in this book was either outdated or painfully obvious. The whole point of the book is to show that wealthy people live among us, and we should live below our means and maybe this was new information, I guess. This book is the epitome of an outdated text that is only famous because it was the first of its kind, but if the shallow, repetitive, unhelpful content is not enough. Here is the kicker that this book bis also dreadfully boring, any examples I give would sound like exaggerations, but it is true that this book is both shockingly shallow and mind blowing boring. I honestly can not figure out what angle the authors were going for, fun and light, dense and informative, but who knows. If you are a new investor, this will turn you off to it. Like I said, browse some of these negative reviews before purchasing and you will thank us later.

This is the first book over the many I have read where the authors claim to provide an excellent ROI on the investment in the book. I would have to disagree, my ROI on several other books has greatly surpassed the ROI on this one. Starting with my elementary math textbooks, I do not think even authors whose books or textbooks were read by Mark Zuckerberg or Bill Gates or Warren Buffet made such a claim. The gist of the book is save, save and save, do not let the consumer culture around you dictate your spending habits, this makes sense, but not when belabored over book length, and not after 2011, the bubble and the burst. If that period in this book was not instructive, then this book can hardly be.

While reading the book I was wondering if wealth and savings statistics from the old times is still relevant. The concepts explain by the authors are really interesting but the data shown in this books is outdated, however, a couple of weeks ago I found in a bookstore a recent version of this book with updated statistics. Much more useful, this book is just disappointing to have bought this archaic edition and the seller should stop selling this version.

The book is okay and more than anything it confirms what many people learn over time, you need to save money in order to have money and the rub is the how to do that. This book is helpful in that regard and earns four stars and it loses one of those stars for the chronic Kindle problem with illustrations. The charts appear tiny and illegible and some are even printed vertical which forces you to tilt the laptop. I did find a work around for their size that I will pass along. On a page with a tiny chart press the Table of Contents and when the page appears you may find it larger. No guarantees but it works for me and this book is still annoying however.

This book is a good and one that I would recommend for everybody. It does seem to be a book that presents a lot of statistics about groups of people in society and we all know that stats lead to generalizations and in that sense it does seem to be an odd way of presenting the material in this book. However I would like to still recommend this book as a reminder of what it means and takes to be a millionaire. It is a tough book to read and gets more difficult towards the end. Also the examples and stats are American and in a lot of cases do not makes sense in the context of a different county.

There is really no reason for this book to be as long as it is, not that it is incredibly long, but the whole book could easily be summed up in less than ten pages. It is very repetitive, and chalked full of filler, explaining the same thing over and over again. Here is my one sentence summary of the book, the typical millionaire owns their own business, is married, drives a used car, lives well below their means, and is very modest with their wealth. The whole point of the book is to explain that the typical millionaire does not live like Donald Trump and I guess it is geared for people who have never thought about that concept before. Other than generating a book to sell, I can not see why it would take so many pages to explain this fact.

Overall, however, if you look past how dated the book is, this is a very interesting assessment and will certainly help you understand the differences between high income earners who are also hyper consumers but with low net worth and the frugal self employed person who squirrels away millions. The author calls the former group UAWs or under accumulators of wealth. The PAWs are prodigious accumulators of wealth and they are who this book is all about. The author breaks the myth that people that drive high end cars and buy nice houses and clothing and houses are the rich. The author proposes that the real rich, are those that work hard, live simply and frugally, and save their money and I do not have any reason to not follow this thesis. I just have a difficult time relating the charts and graphs and data based on thirty year old studies to our world today. This book deserves a fresh rewrite, not just an updated preface.

The authors make the powerful and important point that wealth is not always identified by fancy cars or houses and most of the truly wealthy live beneath their means and that is basically this book in a nutshell, and a very valuable lesson to learn. Unfortunately, while they do provide some informative and even entertaining case studies to make this point, the book becomes very repetitive since some of it seems to be poorly organized and hops from topic to topic within a chapter. Often the writing displays sloppy reasoning, and finally, the research underlying their book has some serious methodological flaws, low response rate, small cash gift for filling out a survey will bias towards more thrifty people responding. However, with its weaknesses, I still recommend the book and I feel like it drove its lesson home to me, however laboriously, and for that I am grateful.

I like the data oriented approach of this book, author clearly supports his hypothesis with data. The topics are very superficial, like buying a car, inheriting, a lot on this which I cant relate to and surprised to see nothing about mortgage and its impact on wealth accumulation. I think the content could be compressed and supporting stories could be from after the crash, which would make this book more relevant to current trend.

This research needs to be updated and it states it has an updated prefix but the poll they took to get this info was taken, so not sure how relevant it currently is. The book is helpful for those who need a push to live more frugally in order to become higher accumulators of wealth rather than spending everything they make. The bullet points about how millionaires live should not be quoted, is the most common car still Ford. The average home value would no doubt after the twenty years since this poll was taken and basically read the book for the mindset but realize the stats are outdated.