#181. A People's History of the United States
#Howard Zinn
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Peoples-History-United-States-ebook/product-reviews/B015XEWZHI/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

Had the great honor to have had a semester of US History with this author, my freshman year of college. I was the only African American student in the class, and I was affected greatly from hearing him speak daily on the intricacies of what was and what was not in the seminal history of the country that which is the congealed narrative of a master race or that of those affected by the impudence of power. More so, power run amok, the author was my mentor, and my friend, do not buy a summary, read the book and I still have the textbook he assigned me.

A wonderful book that will change how you see the world, much like Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee did for those of us who grew up watching Hollywood westerns. It presents history of farmers, slaves and factory workers in a way that is different, more human, and more believable than what we were taught by the public schools. One of my top five books, and I have read many hundreds.

This book is so important for the national discussion, and this book is a great contribution to the actual history of the United States. I just received this book as a resource and I could not put it down. I took a break to see if the author is alive and how I might meet him. Unfortunately, all that we have are his books, plays, interviews and reflections. Being a playwright has certainly influenced his historical writings and style in this book. History is a story and he tells that story with great detail and courage. In addition, his truth is the truth of all of America since his perspective is from the viewpoint of the Indians when Columbus landed, the factory workers, women, African Americans, this is a must read.

This is book should be essential reading for all high school and college students. It is essential to know the history of all the people that have been harmed by western imperial capitalism. Our existing history books tell the story from the perspective of the oppressors, such as Columbus, who committed genocide against the Native people of North America. I must admit this book made me so sad and angry about what the pursuit of profit led our European ancestors to do. I teared up reading some of the horrible atrocities that were carried out by imperialists. I have included some informative picture of the book as well. Feel free to take a look at those if you like, overall, the book is excellent and I highly recommend it to everyone.

This book should be read by everyone and I congratulate any educator who uses this tome. This is the history schools did not teach in my time and I am glad to hear many students these days are required to read it. From the beginning of European occupancy of this continent to relatively recently it explains how our culture and government have imposed on people. It reveals the abuse of power and wealth and the manipulation of the general public by the few so the abuse can continue. Anyone who truly wants the United States of America to be a good country needs to read this, even if they agree with some of the bias, prejudice, abuse, manipulation and systems the book uncovers and explains.

We are so used to hearing history told from the side of the victor, but what was it like for captors or losers. The authors does a great job recreating historical scenes using lots of sources to communicate what is was like for the Indians and Africans. I love the discussion on progress and the explanation for racism. As a psychologist, it resonated with the idea of realistic group conflict theory and inter group contact theory. Prejudice starts as a process of categorizing people as us versus other, then a competition for resources and then continues because groups are not considered equal and not working together. The discussion of interracial relationships show the attraction of individuals, but the social norms and laws prevented it. It can be difficult to read because of the savagery, but it is a page turner for sure. Probably the only history book I read where I was not bored to tears.

I like that I have learned so much about our country history by reading this book. I have been aware of the inequities but unaware to the extent of these inequities. If we see that the government favors the rich and powerful individuals and corporations now, that is because it has always been so. This book has simply reconfirmed in my mind how the middle and working classes have been manipulated by the oligarchs, with the help of organized religion, throughout history, unfortunately now the fate of the planet now hangs in the balance.

America has significantly deteriorated over the years, there are millions of Americans living on the streets homeless while the estimated eighty seven percent Christian population worries more about foreign relief and their own selfishness and hatefulness. America as I learned, it was supposed to be a free country for all its citizens but we see religions trying to force their beliefs down the throats of others instead of applying what they supposedly believe to their own lives, a nation of judgment and self serving people that live a hypocritical life. Low wage workers continue to barely live on low wages, while everything around them increases in cost, talk about fairness, there should be a sliding scale for those living in poverty but once again greed prevents this from ever happening. The homeless is ridiculed and cast aside without a second thought. This is no longer a nation of equality, it is more like what you have and who you know, cheating the system has become a way of life for many Americans.

Great to read a little of the history that is usually sanitized from most sources and ignore most of the negative comments. Those tend to be from the people who prefer their history sanitized and glorified because it makes them feel more patriotic. This is not a history book in the normal sense and it is more a smattering of the history of various people movements over the course of the USA so do not expect it to read like your high school text. If I could change something, it would be to better reference sources for the thousands of quotations used. To keep the book from being a thousand pages longer, most quotes have been edited for brevity and it would be nice to be able to look up the complete quotations more easily to insure context.

The author has compiled a history of the United States that is as fascinating as any novel I have ever read. My intention was to research particular areas of interest, but once I began reading Chapter One, I did not stop until the last page. Finally, I was able to find answers within the context of history that explained the circumstances that shaped this country. Written from the point of view of the common man, this is not just a stale recording of dates and facts. The author breathes into the dusty corridors of the past and gives them life. The intricate tapestry of the development of the United States, its principles, flaws, attempts at greatness, all are there for the interested reader to understand. Not only has my personal knowledge been enriched by this compelling book, but I bought a copy for my son. We have since enjoyed many spirited discussions thanks to author and this history is complete, concise and full of pertinent detail.