#183. Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies
#Jared Diamond Ph.D.
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Guns-Germs-Steel-Fates-Societies/product-reviews/0393354326/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=2

The book enlightened me on several things about the origins of of our worlds societies. As a novice, the authors conclusions seem logical, well supported and convincing. My sole critic of the book stems from the authors tendency to repeat his conclusions over and over. The net result is some sort of circular logic to tie the chapters together. The book could have been much more effective and readable without the repetition.

There are sections in this book which are thought provoking and interesting to listen to. There are other sections in this book which are far far too drawn out. The author has extensive experience in New Guinea and Indonesia, and talks at great length about them, focusing more on these islands than any continents in the world. If only Jared Diamond would condense his fascinating information, without needlessly listing out every single detail for hours on end on things like Asiatic languages and what types of crops can be found where, this book would be outstanding. As is, it is very difficult to pay attention and that is because some areas are so terrible boring, you would not want to. However, if you can make it through the long unnecessary drawn out parts, the interesting parts are well worth it and eye opening. If anyone knows why some nations advanced ahead others, it is Jared Diamond.

The author has an excellent theory about why world history took the course it did, with the western world taking control and then subjecting the rest of the world to its ways. It is well thought out and the documentation is excellent. The writing style makes it an easy book to read. The major problem I have with the book is it should have been half as long. Page after page is devoted to sideline discussions and irrelevant facts that are not important to the main theory being presented. I enjoyed the book but the thesis could have been explained and documented in less than one hundred pages. Still, the thesis is sound and should have an important impact on historical analysis.

Now this is a good book and it might appeal to some yet some might hate it and it is all a matter of opinion. I had to read this book for my World History class and I skimmed through most of it, just trying to find the answers to my questionnaire I had to complete. The book is very lengthy and can get boring. Some chapters, like the one about Pizarro and Atahualpa, were very interesting. If you want to learn about why human development proceeded at such different rates on different continents then read the book, that topic may very well peak your interest. The theories provided in the book make sense and I have to say I agree with most of them.

This a an excellent book and clarifies much of the reason why Europe and the West prevailed in history, rather than say Africa or America. Basically Diamond argues eloquently that geography and luck of the draw food resources and animals explain much of the winners success in history. This is a well formed, well researched argument, however, I believe that he turns a blind eye to the major effects that different religions and cultures have had on the success of their people. The request for further study by historians using more scientific means is welcomed. Perhaps PHD thesis of some one could use historical information to compare transplanted religions and cultures into dominant and non dominate societies and analyze the results. My guess is that cultural bias and religions had as much to do with history as did geography and food supply. All in all, a great book, worthy of much thought, but as one reads it, do not forget to think.

One author for such a complex main subject seems a miracle accomplished. This realistic account of Human Movement from Man beginnings serves up a platter which is way too seasoned for the palates of a lot of us simple folks. Too much of too much leaves questioning with answers not laid out easily for such confusing portraits of mankind. Why was not China and Japan included in the first edition of this story to begin with. Adding them to the draft later seems like an apology for non inclusion to begin with. This man must be some genius to have all of this confusing info containing some strange speculative, packed into just one brain, perhaps for myself at least, a reread is in order. To actually follow any of it with any kind of cohesion seems impossible for this reader, the offer of confusion in the reading of this history inspection or speculation of the World, is all stamped out in an over written, extremely long, which will take you forever to wade through, let alone understand, for the average reader. Never mind though, because this is an important work.

The book is excellent, but I wish the Kindle version included the pictures, graphs, plates. I finally borrowed a book so I could see what the author had been referring to, especially the Plates. Much become clear, particularly when he referred to the the pictures of the various indigenous people of Africa. This is not the first time the Kindle version has left out such things, and it is very irritating.

I was searching for a world history book that would condense the most significant events into one volume and a friend happened to recommend this book so I bought it. Although I have only read one third of the book, it seems to me a little dense and scientific. It does not read as a novel but rather as a scientific approach towards civilization. For an avid history major this may seem like the right book, however, for someone looking for a brush up on world history from a broad perspective, this book would seem technical and even boring at some points. There is also the constant referral to New Guinea in almost every significant aspect of the book, no doubt attributable to the field work performed by Diamond on this particular place. It seems however that it obscures the objectivity of world history by his specific findings and subjective conclusions, however, being only a beginner in terms of world history knowledge, I would leave it up to historians to debate this last point. Loaded with data and scientific conclusions on very specific areas, low on generalized high view cornerstones of history.

This book tackles an interesting and complicated topic. The commitment and scholarship of this author are impressive but it is not at all well written. At times, the writing style is only somewhat better than the dullest of textbooks, adding to the tedium, are numerous repetitions of material, due to, in part, the difficulties of organizing such a mammoth topic but I mostly blame poor editing. I expected to enjoy reading this acclaimed book but found it dull and surprisingly lacking in fresh, illuminating ideas.

This is a marvelous book for real students of human history, especially the history from thousands centuries ago. It is an amazing piece of scholarship, but it is not for the casual reader. You will learn more than you ever wanted to know the author could put all this history into a more condensed telling that would be a more readable for the casual reader, because it is a tale worth everyone hearing. It gives one a much better understanding of who we are and where we came from, as well as a better a better understanding of what to be careful about in our future. If you start the book, be ready for a long read, but also a great learning experience.