#184. The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness
#Michelle Alexander
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/New-Jim-Crow-Incarceration-Colorblindness/product-reviews/B007R0L47O/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I kind of knew what was happening in my states penitentiaries because I worked my way through college as a state correctional officer, but reading the cold hard facts is especially numbing because I know I contributed in building this New Jim Crow System. After reading this book I feel that I have to take part in dismantling this awful for profit warehousing of my Brothers and Sisters. This book was delivered quickly and was well packaged and I would gladly do business with this Seller again in the future. I pray that enough well meaning people of all races in the USA read this well thought out book and are as deeply moved by it as I am. This was not an easy read for me. But I needed a wake up call especially given the current racial climate of the country.

This book opened my eyes since there are many powerful statements in this book but here are a few that stuck with me. Arguably the most important parallel between mass incarceration and Jim Crow is that both have served to define the meaning and significance of race in America. Indeed, a primary function of any racial caste system is to define the meaning of race in its time. Slavery defined what it meant to be black, and Jim Crow defined what it meant to be black. Today mass incarceration defines the meaning of blackness in America, black people, especially black men, are criminals, that is what it means to be black. The United States imprisons a larger percentage of its black population than South Africa did at the height of apartheid. In Washington, our nation capitol, it is estimated that three out of four young black men can expect to serve time in prison and nearly all those in the poorest neighborhoods. I highly recommend this book to anyone who really want to understand about mass incarceration and how it effects everyone in America.

It is excellent she is a great writer and it is tough for me as I am so impacted my heart breaks every page. I read, then stop collect myself and go on and I encourage people to read this as it is valuable in every aspect for people interested in a deeper understanding of the plight of the male African American. It is harsh and unflinching and devastating but truly this needed to be told. It makes you so angry you will never look at the American Judicial system the same again. I hope it is a textbook and required reading in high schools if not college and I think it may be.

While I did find the author guilty at times of not assigning blame appropriately for some of the crimes that landed these men in jail regardless of their race, that said one must live in a box not to have at least a basic understanding that minorities are target much more by law enforcement than privileged white people because the color of our white skin does not illicit negative thought about our behaviors like that of brown skinned people. The facts listed in this book are reminiscent of Jim Crow days and it is hard to dispute any facts she lists and backs up with proof. America has to figure out how to root out racism and allow us all to live together equally and peacefully in my opinion, great read for me.

Without a doubt, this is one of the most exhaustively researched books I have ever read. It is the Rosetta Stone to understanding how and why the criminal justice has failed the African American community so badly, and why white Conservatives hang onto the notion that the system remains colorblind while the results clearly say otherwise. I cannot recommend this book highly enough, it should be required reading for all voters.

In an era where blatant overt racism is generally anathema in American society, Michelle Alexander explores the truth that we have not ended racial caste in America and we have merely redesigned it. Mass incarceration is the embodiment of this new racial caste and in many ways it is the new and improved Jim Crow. As important as understanding the parallels to the historical Jim Crow era is acknowledging what is different about this incarnation because the moral imperative of its dismantling requires new understanding. Perhaps an analogy in the world of biology is helpful and this new incarnation is in some ways like an evolved virus resistant to the treatments that have worked before. In fairness, the analogy is weak because it implies that remedies to its earlier forms were fully implemented and successful and as is made clear in this work, the unwillingness of American society to fully address the horrors of slavery and then Jim Crow continues to feed the underlying cancer. Alexander dose not prescribe a solution, such is the task of an entire nation not a single author. She does however suggest some questions and specific lines of inquiry that can serve those who feel obligated to address this fundamental concern that continuously threatens the inspirational promise of American democracy. This book is not only an essential read but should be a prominent part of our daily conversations.

This book is exposes the truth of how the system is tilted too incarcerate young African American men. A perfect example is how illegal drugs charges are handled in this country, with the crack cocaine epidemic the solution was incarceration, with the opioid epidemic the solution is drug rehabilitation and treatment centers, both are drugs are horrific and have had traumatic effects on our society. Just follow the money, making money locking up young African Americans in prison and making money with treatment and rehabilitation centers.

Excellent overview of the sorry history of our War on Drugs, related issues of racism, and how they have interacted to keep our Black communities down. If you are seduced by the idea that we are moving beyond all that, that our laws and policies are now color blind and therefore non racist, then this is a must read. I thought that new Jim Crow was an exaggeration, used purely for effect, turns out, so did the author, at the start of her career as a civil liberties lawyer. The book makes a compelling case that this is in fact a reality, and that we have work to do to remove the post racial, color blind forms of institutional racism. Recent events like the police abuses in Ferguson strongly support her points. The author is a very clear thinker and the book is well organized and she collects the facts and statistics into a clear and readable narrative, always relating them to her main points. The writing does get rambling and repetitive at points, more careful editing would have earned it a fifth start in this review.

This is a stunning book and I have been a civil rights activist and have been deeply concerned about the mass incarceration of black men, but until I read The New Jim Crow, I had no sense of the profound and shocking impact of this practice. The implications of this book for the men who are directly affected, but also for their families and for our communities, are so serious that I think the book should be required reading for every police department in the country. But in addition, everyone needs to be aware of what is happening, we literally cannot afford the ignorance of a situation that is devastating so many lives. We need to read the book and it is a careful and thorough appraisal of the situation, well and thoroughly documented.

This is a must read for anyone who think they know or understand about the racial caste system that has been going on since the days of slavery and the changes that has been put in place to legally hide it yet right out in the open. We become blind to what the legal justice system is and has always done to people with black and brown skin along with a few poorer white people that can not afford to escape it themselves. Read this with an open mind regardless of your race, religion or political views or personal experiences and you will come to have a much better understanding why so many thing are the way they are and way people of different races see and the look at the same situations so differently.