#185. Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge and the Teachings of Plants
#Robin Wall Kimmerer
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Braiding-Sweetgrass-Indigenous-Scientific-Knowledge/product-reviews/B01H4772CU/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This is a book that unites what has been foolishly separated and biological science and indigenous plant knowledge. Our relationship to the earth and our treatment of it and the modern world and the traditional, words and actions, giving and receiving. The author is a scientist, a professor of biology, and also a member of one of North America First Nations. She writes out of love, and pain, and deep knowledge. This book changed and enriched the way I look at the natural world. We have to come to our senses, heal our dialogue with our planet, and the great good sense of this book can help.

Few books can make me cry and laugh, this one accomplished that and much much more. Please buy this book and gift to your friends. but more so apply the principles of what you learned and start your own farm and get involved in protecting our land, you can do it and start local and see how far you can get. How do you think the little environmental protection we have was put into place, it was through people like you working with your local government proposing, education not all of it is accomplished through laws and votes. Excellent writer, wonderful women, bless this work and may conservation win. Only thing I did not like about this book was the fact that it was not produced consciously, meaning no low impact dye for text of recycled paper, little hypocritical considering the contents but the book was so good I can overlook this error.

This tale of us, plants, animals, humans, and earth is so beautifully woven, poetically written, and emotionally powerful that it took my breath away. I savored the pages rather than swallowing chapters whole, as I am will not, because I needed to allow each message to soak into my bones. The author, an indigenous American woman and botanist, integrates science and ancient wisdom to show us a way forward in a world where we have forgotten our duty, stewardship. The author dose not teach us as much as she breaks our hearts open so we can remember what we have known all along. I read the Kindle version and then bought the paperback so I could share it. My hope is that a visionary film maker will discover the book and translate it onto the big screen. This message is too important not to be broadcast.

I love the poetic prose and the connection to the woods and landscapes. The author explores many places in her professional and community connections but comes full circle back to New York. She took me home to Ohio in many ways, roaming woods, learning plants from my mother, watching the seasonal changes with cattails, harvesting wild berries and nuts, appreciating the multiple generations of family gardens and orchards, and pondering again the tragedy of the Cuyahoga Valley National Park Superfund, just over a mile from my childhood home. Some chapters are like hearing the voice of a beloved aunt read favorite family stories and others are packed with botany and scientific research. As a social scientist, I enjoyed learning more about the human and more than human connections with new botany and scientific terms about water, trees, plants, and the microscopic worlds I would never paid attention to before. After reading the book of this author, I will look at the natural world with renewed interest and love and the author gave me hope for a healthier planet because as we work to heal the earth, the earth heals us.

I loved this book and wish that if only we could have carried on in the ways of the indigenous, not sure if that is the right terminology and do not wish to offend. Some are too easily offended but it is the word I will use here if only we could have learned from North American to treat the earth gently, to take what we needed, use what we took and preserve and appreciate the earth gifts, give the earth thanks with a reciprocal gift. Tobacco was given by the North American people and it is rich in nitrogen and gives back to the earth.

For myself, this is has been a great learning experience. It is like putting pieces back together after a big storm or disaster, I know a little about that and this author knows more. Finding the beauty and rhythm again in ashes of destruction and most things of nature find a way to continue and even become better, more resilient, more capable but some do not. I was drawn in by the idea of science meeting tradition. I was not disappointed and I have it in audible so I could listen while working to put up my own garden this fall. The author narrated herself and I am so glad she did and her voice adds so much to this story. I am not all the way through it yet as I go back and forth a lot to get more out of the simple yet powerful stories and teaching.

I love this book and I read a chapter before bed which sets me up for a great sleep. I somehow lost the book before I had finished reading, so just had to order another and there are so many memorable phrases. This book is a must read in getting back to our connection with nature and I have learned so much. This spring I plan to plant the corn, beans, and squash in a mound and I took pictures of lichens and noticed little mushroom fungi growing within. This book has reminded me to tend the garden of Eden which we were placed. We are in this together and I highly recommend this book for all ages and genders.

I have recommended it to so many of my friends and family, and gave it to my mother for Christmas. This book is so deep, so touching, so emotional, and the author just gets it. I do not have children and I am not of the First Nation, but I found that just about every other page resonated with me, to the point of tears quite often. The language and her insights of this author are so profound and it is almost a spiritual read. The depth is easy to miss if you just read this through like a novel or if you get bogged down in the scientific terms and language, it can be rather dense but I encourage readers to take it slow and not to skip or skim over. Pay attention to what the author is really saying, because each word is crafted for a purpose and a very powerful message. In this way the book, and then the message, become a treasure of incalculable worth.

The author is a plant biologist, a poet, and a member of the nation. In this book she poetically blends the intimate and often spiritual knowledge of her ancestors about the natural world with today scientific knowledge. Why do plants behave as they do, are they conscious, or have they feelings, the combination of perspectives of this author greatly enriches someone understanding of wild plants, trees, the whole natural world. I ended up convinced that Western scientific ways of looking at nature are unnecessarily narrow and colorless. I now appreciate wilderness, and my garden in a new and satisfying way.

My boyfriend and I read each other her stories from this book, they are really phenomenal and inspiring. A very complex and wonderful woman, she is so well connected to her native roots, her passion for the written word, her training as a biologist and her undying love for the natural world and it is conservation. Highly recommend to any person who has even a modicum of passion for any of those items mentioned above. I got this copy for my Ma on Mother Day this year and I am really excited to give it to her.