#189. Spark Joy: An Illustrated Master Class on the Art of Organizing and Tidying Up (The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up)
#Marie Kondo
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Spark-Joy-Illustrated-Organizing-Changing-ebook/product-reviews/B00Y6QG5D0/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I enjoyed this book much more and it is a practical guide to implementing the concepts outlined in the first book. The author walks through different areas of the home room by room, discussing how to pare down and organize each one. There is no constant repetition in this author like in the first book, but there are still plenty of relevant anecdotes to illustrate her points. I also found the guidance to be a little more mainstream, for example, clear off your kitchen counters when you are done cooking, empty out your purse every night and store the contents all over the house, and it covers a much larger area of the house. In the first book, it felt like the author was talking about living spaces that consisted of one room, whereas in Spark Joy, she covers an entire house that includes a kitchen, bathrooms. The author also discusses how to tidy spaces that include other occupants, like a spouse and children. One of the things I really like about this book is that she covers how to think about items that do not spark joy but are necessary in most households like a spatula or a flashlight.

I started reading this book as a reference book and I would read about how to fold shirts and go to my shirt drawer to fold and organize. I would read a little and work a little bit and it has taken me awhile, and there is still lots to do and the methods of this author work. The author also explains how to decide what to keep and what to discard and that is often a difficult process. I shall keep this book on my reference shelf and I shall return to it over and over. Especially helpful are the last chapters about why we buy, collect and save items and the author writes about our relationships with the things we own. Before reading Marie Kondo books I never thought of my clothes, records and books as relationships. More important the author cautions us not to try and change family members. Many of us our happy being disorganized and some like me are disorganized in some areas and better organized in others.

This book is amazing and The first book is amazing. This book has a lot of information that her first did not, extra information. The first was the basics, some information was obvious but never put into practice and some was rewriting our misconceptions about how to clean. This book really is the Master Class, in addition to talking about how to decorate or finish the space, she also talks about what to do with things you need that do not necessarily spark joy. In this book, she also addresses something she had previously said that she thinks now does not apply to everyone, and that is nice to know, especially if you are one of those people. She shows examples of how to store and talks about folding methods that she either did not mention or were not completely clear to me in the first book. I was folding pants wrong, and the crotches were getting wrinkles, and I did not know how to fold and store my socks, and she goes over that in this book, so that was helpful. It really seals the Konmari deal I think and the second book helped me get to the click point. I was happy with how clean our house was after the first book, but was not necessarily there yet.

Wonderful sequel to her first book and ignore the negative reviewers, who think this is the same material, but it is not. This book answers the questions raised by her first one, and goes into much more detail about each category. I am still impressed by her writing style, which is clear and highly enjoyable, giving the reader a sense of intimacy, as if the author is speaking to each one of us personally. The appreciation of this author for the little things in life and acknowledgment of our attachment to our possessions is refreshing. The author really knows how to celebrate and bless the importance of home. Just reading her book brightens my day and highly recommended.

I had become a clothes buying addict and my large walk in closet was so jammed I could not even find what I was looking for. I had been trying to weed it out, but was reluctant to part with anything, so I stacked them on the shelves of the plastic coated wire system that went wall to wall. When the whole thing came crashing down, rehung, and crashed again, I knew I was a hopeless mess. The writer of this book understands people like me, wrote about me, and helped me to become joyful in letting go of things I no longer wore, to get organized in a way I looked forward to, and I am very grateful to her. If you need someone to prod you into changing a bad habit, and to do something you are reluctant to do, the writer does it it in spectacular fashion.

I have changed many of my habits with help from this book. I have organized my kitchen to run more efficiently. I have rid the kitchen of all the extra cooking utensils I had and did not use. I have learned how to fold my clothes better and therefore have more organized drawers and closet. I feel less cluttered and I did as the book recommended. Placed all books, clothes, pictures on the floor or bed and touched each time and I am pleased. I would recommend this book to those interested in decluttering. And as the book says it is really not about organization and spending money on cute organizing tools, it is about having less. I have enjoyed this book and will keep it as a resource.

Life changing for my husband and I physically and mentally. I myself never enjoy doing laundry and folding clothes now I treat my clothes nicer and do not mind it at all, like a meditation session. I am more like a messy person and like spreading things everywhere. Now we have organized things in categories and I automatically return things back to its assigned home. For my husband, he never wanted to let go of his old belongings, clothing and shoes. Recently, my husband went through everything in his parents house and our own house to get rid of many things especially those do not spark joy and bad memories. I am glad he did and learned to let go of things and it helps us to make our life goals clear and rid of unnecessary things around us. Highly recommended for couples and family to read together, although audio book works best for us, just easier when we are both in the car driving somewhere or on a plane flying or traveling. Take small step at a time, even start by just listening to the book is a joy. This book is truly a magic, thank you so much Marie Kondo.

This might be my new favorite book of any genre ever. The second book improves upon the first so much that I would recommend skipping the first and going straight to this one. This is all about gratitude and cherishing not only the things in your life that spark joy, but the people that do too. This was a joy to read and I found myself highlighting quotes over and over. The journey it takes you on as you begin to confront yourself and your belongings goes much deeper than material things. Thank you for sharing your tidying and life wisdom.

This book is a great motivator if you want to finally get control over your home and make it enjoyable to be in. The author breaks the process into different sections according to type of items, rather than a room by room approach as most of these types of books do. The first step is clothing and gather all clothing from the entire house and go through piece by piece determining if each item brings you joy, the main idea of this approach, get rid of everything that dose not. Then it continues into each category of your home such as books, paperwork, and so on. Although this book is small in size, it is very comprehensive in each category. It also gives great tips on how to fold clothing, and other methods to maximize your storage space and make it easy to access your belongings.

A great read and great book, now my entire house sparks joy and my entire life sparks joy. This books really helped me to declutter and organized. It really helped me to detach of all those things I was hanging to them because I felt I really need the sentimental feeling they cause around me to be completely happy and realized in my life. I really got to understand that some things makes me really happy, and some many others do not and I do not need to hang to everything I got or I have. They are other, healthier ways to have things and keep them around. A really touching and helpful book, a must reading if your goal is to get things organized and if you have a decluttering project on mind. Go for this awesome book, very motivational, full of strategies and most of all support and understanding and I got tons of insight for my life out of its reading.