#19. I'm Fine and Neither Are You
#Camille Pagán
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Im-Fine-Neither-Are-You-ebook/product-reviews/B07GJYX3CM/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

This book is a thought provoking, timely novel that takes a deep look into relationships between friends, between spouses, and between parents and children. The characters in this book are so well written and complex characters who will connect with readers on so many levels. This story will cause readers to think of their own relationships, like the ones in the book, are messy and complicated, and they are portrayed in this book with insight and honesty. My emotions were taken for a ride while I was reading this book, a ride complete with ups and downs, bumpy roads, twists and turns.

I was so excited to see the author as a selection for March First Reads. I have read other works by Camille Pagan and was eager to read her latest work and I was not disappointed. In this book, the author deals with the current crisis as well as the issues and pressures of being a working spouse and parent, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, you will too.

I am an older woman so I have been through many of the things the main character in this story was experiencing. I had a harder time in many ways, but I never had to be sold support of the family, so I can not really fault her, all in all, a good tale and well told.

Enjoyably purposeful and no agenda, refreshing Insights exploring push and pull of honest commitments to strengthen friendships, marriages, families and careers were skillfully brought to life. Characters were well developed and lifted off the pages. Found myself thinking about this book even when I was not reading it, hard to put down and finished it in two days.

The story follows a couple, after the tragic and surprising death of a close friend reveals a troubled life hidden from view, they decide to each make a list of what they would like the other to change, in an effort to be more open and honest, to help put their relationship back on track. Throughout this story, what the author offers a piercing, and even humorous at times, look behind the curtain of marriage, with all its glorious spots. The first five pages alone were so terrifyingly relatable and I could not put the book down for the rest of the day and I strongly recommend this read.

I am pretty sure that there is a little bit of Penelope in all of us and I know I saw myself in her. This book was not just a riveting emotional roller coaster, but rather the story that so many women of a certain age can tell from their own lives. The characters are so believable, the text and dialogue genuine and Penny humor, sarcasm and honesty about her shortcomings, that was icing on the cake. Definitely would recommend to anyone struggling with being stuck in life and I found perspective here that I had not considered before and I ugly cried way more than once, wonderful story.

Thanks for writing a book on how we women truly think and feel, white lies and secrets seem to rule our lives. Sometimes honesty may not be the best policy but we need to be more honest with ourselves. Penelope struggle is real and yet refreshing and a great story for one and all.

The further I read, the less I found myself liking this book and the characters were interesting at the beginning and they were really struggling with the issues of their lives. Once the plot moved, it just ran downhill to a predictable happy conclusion, everything was buttoned up and all would live happily ever after. I wish life were that simple since it only happens in fairy tales, a good plot wasted.

Though still somewhat simplified, this book is a really nice reminder that although life is absolutely hard. It is in our control to change and it is too easy to get in the habit of under playing how difficult things can be, and putting your own happiness last. I love that this book was a success story of the value in actually paying attention to and working on what will make you happy with the time you have.

Although this is a work of fiction, each of the various situations can and do happen in real life. It is not unusual for any combination or even all of them to occur in real life. The author showed that there are many causes for the situations well as many solutions. She also touched on how reacting before all the fact is in can cause it is own set of problems, can not wait to read more from this author.