#191. Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow
#Yuval Noah Harari
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Homo-Deus-Brief-History-Tomorrow/product-reviews/0062464345/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

A stimulating read and readers should not look to this book as a prognostication of what is next, instead, as the author tries to make clear, it is a litany of possibilities for the future of humanity. Many of these futures are possible, none is guaranteed. The author is a historian who liberally dabbles in many areas of expertise, including some where he is less knowledgeable such as artificial intelligence and gene therapy. He dose not hesitate to make sweeping conclusions. Yet that is also his strength, his ability to synthesize so much from so many fields, even if he likely dose not get it all right or is shallower in some of the futuristic sciences. It is undeniable that our world, our economy, science, and technology are all changing very, very fast with implications we can only begin to grasp. I loved it because it got me thinking in new ways about who we are as a species and where we might be going. I have yet to read Sapiens, but look forward to it.

I wish I could make this mandatory reading and a very honest look at what is coming down the pike for us as humans and what has already pretty much gone down the drain. Too bad humans, you had such potential, selfishness and greed can only last so many years before the bill comes due. I believe we will start paying the check now and pretty soon mostly think of this as what the future will be now, as I think the ship is too big to turn at this point, but, if you want to know what it is going to look like when it all hits the fan, maybe in your spare time you can pick up this book. I am loving it, but if you want to continue thinking of humans as the greatest gift to the world, do not read this book. Sorry, I feel like a rat in a bottle of water.

While former book of this author is a true masterpiece, but this book is too speculative. The author is still a very knowledgeable person, and you can still learn a lot. Also just like in his former book, it is not hard to tell what is an opinion and what is knowledge. Just like the former book, the author also makes a lot of provocative opinions. The main problem with this book, is that while in a brief history of humankind each opinion is not heavily based on the former ones. In this book the author builds up his opinions a speculation upon a speculation, and while he is a very wise person, it suffices that you would disagree with one of the assumptions for losing much of the engagement with this book. When you build such a structure of speculations upon speculations, even if all of them are reasonable by themselves, it suffice that one of the to be incorrect for the whole structure to collapse. The success of science was mainly because we were careful enough not to build such speculation structures, still a very interesting book by a very interesting person.

Loved the thought provoking ideas in this hard to put down book and they forced me to reevaluate the way I see the world and what I imagined for its future. However, I also think that the book is flawed, in its commendable efforts to make complex ideas simple and understandable, the author occasionally simplified things way too much in a way that often was self serving but I forgave all of this because of the clear enthusiasm and sense of urgency of this author. This is a book that reads as if written from a megaphone, but the ideas are extremely important. I agree with the author that once again this book is at crossroads. Whether this book will be the outcome is arguable and, in my opinion, unlikely but I really enjoyed wrestling with this intriguing book, arguing in my head with the author and engaging my wife as I channeled the author and his sometimes strident opinions. My recommendation is that do not pass this book and read it.

This is an amazing book and a very thought provoking book by the author. Very dense with many things to think about, in some ways a sequel to Sapiens, but more of a look starting recently and into the future. The author redefines religion in terms of a widespread shared idea or commonality of view of society rather than a deity is the old way. Thus, humanism is the religion rather than Gods, or, rather, humans and their feelings and thoughts are what is valued rather than some older idea of God. Humanism then gets analyzed and subdivided into various types of humanism. From there, the plot goes on to discuss how human brains may just be designed as algorithms which could in the future be out done by computers with artificial intelligence. Also, how we are becoming more and more involved in putting huge amounts of data into computers and how this could affect the future. The book is very thought provoking, and like Sapiens will require rereading to have a chance at understanding it better.

Another brilliant book from this author, if you liked Sapiens, you will probably like this book as well. The author writing style is perfect, clear sentences, well constructed paragraphs, and well structured chapters. The result is a great book which provides an amazing reading experience to the reader. The subject of the book is very interesting, the possible futures for humankind. The point of view of this author is very well grounded on solid research, however, being an software engineer, I think some of his views about how technology may evolve are too optimistic. Nevertheless, this dose not compromise the message the author is sending to humanity, great book worth every second reading it.

Author presents multiple scenarios of directions humans will take. Perhaps we will engineer ourselves to become immortal, but only the wealthy will be able to afford to have themselves adapted and the rest of us would be out of luck. Due to extinction of manual jobs, there could be a huge class of useless people, just living off payments from the government and unable to contribute to society because they are not intelligent or educated enough. Overall I left the book with a feeling of despair because it seems likely that humans in the future will very quickly evolve both in the Darwinian way and in the technological way, to be so different from humans of today, they will be like a different species. So in a sense humans will become extinct after all, because down the line they will become Superhuman who will think of their ancestors us as really dumb and backwards. I am the same kind of animal as my human ancestors of a million years age but my descendants of a thousand, or maybe only a hundred, years in the future will not be human like me. There is no place in the future for regular people.

This book predicts the future of humanity, yet most of the book is about the past. The first part of the book talked about the future, and then the book turned to the past. Half the book is about human history with a lot of science intermingled, where the trends of the past are used to make very provocative predictions for the future. The author is so interesting, and history comes alive and is relevant. If you have strong views on religion and the meaning of life, this book might challenge you in uncomfortable ways. The author makes very persuasive arguments and the only one I could not buy was his final argument. This is the kind of book that you will read and want to talk to people about and my one criticism is that the middle part of the book seemed a little stretched out, and I got a little impatient to get back to the future, still I am so glad I read this.

The author weaves a powerful story of where we have been, where we are, and lays the groundwork for the possibilities of the future. The author has distilled the important processes from the stew of data we are bombarded with daily and posed some of the questions we should be asking. I finished this book with many more questions than when I started. This book is thought provoking, are humans truly on the path to irrelevance, is our way of life dying through our own complicity. This is a fascinating read, but as the author says, these powerful forces are not deterministic. Therefore, read this book within a framework of possibilities, albeit well premised ones. We still live within a world that is largely market driven, but humans are the market and that means we still have the power to guide the conversation.

I began this last night and could not put this book down and I will do a review once completed but I am so excited that I thought that I would just say this that everyone should read this book. A pretty tall order, an expansive creative mind with a deft skill in communication lays out our human experience by drawing in current streams of activity, making brilliant relationships between ever shifting patterns and more importantly giving us a perspective that seems to be chronically absent in our current stream of misinformation. Do yourself a favor and arm yourself with this knowledgeable treatise of our path as an evolving species.