#192. The Boy Who Was Raised as a Dog: And Other Stories from a Child Psychiatrist's Notebook--What Traumatized Children Can Teach Us About Loss, Love, and Healing
#Bruce D. Perry
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Boy-Who-Raised-Psychiatrists-Notebook-What/product-reviews/0465094457/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

The author is a psychologist with extensive study and experience in his field. Although many adults, arrogant parents in particular, think they know what is best for their children under all circumstances, the author shows that by looking at parenting from many angles. It is possible to provide children with better environments, happier lives and more upstanding and productive lives as adults. As the old meme goes, when children see adults show kindness to animals and the less fortunate, they internalize these lessons and apply them in their own lives. Brutal and violent parenting, on the other hand, can lead to bitter adults that see everyone else as their enemies. Having never been shown trust, bitter adults assume that everyone else is as untrustworthy as the brutes that looked after them as children and teenagers.

I can not think of any kind of person I would not recommend this book for. If you are a parent or work with children professionally, this is a mandatory read. If you reading this and I highly recommend this book for you as well, and I am extremely conservative about my reading material. The two cons I came upon were that a few pages in a later chapter was confusing to read and it rapidly went back and forth through the time line when the author worked with a particular patient. It was a bit confusing but not unmanageable, on the upside this section was brief. Secondly, I felt not that it was short, rather I could have read an additional two hundred pages without losing the slightest interest on the topics discussed.

This is an amazing book and I read it as a part of a class for my Master Degree. The cases are extremely interesting and at least one was a famous case in American History. The Author gives fantastic insight into how to deliver therapy in cases that appear to be beyond the abilities of the average therapist. Also, it shows the importance of trusting your instincts and learning all you can about the various issues and fields that play a role in the lives and behaviors of your clients, because one never knows when that information may change or even save the life of a client, a must read.

I bought this book and found myself wanting to read it rather than forcing myself for the assignment. The way the author tells the cases and describes what he learned from each one had me waiting eagerly for the next case. It was heartbreaking to read about these children experiences with trauma at such young ages but what he learned while treating them has been essential to what we know today about childhood trauma. I am grateful that he included updates at the end of some of the chapters about the children and this book provided a little hope and relief that some children who have these experiences can still recover. This was am emotionally difficult read but well worth it.

My daughter has an adopted son who has had some emotional problems. My daughter gave me a copy of this book to read and it really helps to understand how even his prenatal experiences and the first few months of his life have affected him as well as how we can support and help him but it is not. As I had expected, a story about one boy, but is a child psychiatrist excellent explanation of a number of cases he has dealt with and what he has learned from them about child development. It is fascinating reading for anyone who is interested in the effects of trauma on children or in brain development in general.

The author is quite revealing and bold in his noble work. Not only in terms of the graphic details of his case studies, but of himself as well. Reading these chapters, one feels as if he or she is accompanying this unconventional doctor on his journeys, his rounds, and his lessons learned. This is an academic work for sure and one that every professional who espouses compassion for others should read, no less than twice. This reader did for sure and how he would like to have been there at every emotional step. This book is not just for the pros, but for parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, pastors, rabbis, priests, youth workers, educators, and anyone who dares to elevate and repair the society in which we live. If for no other reason, one should buy the book for chapter ten alone, however, warning to the casual reader. The stories will move you and the author will inform you and set the record straight, absolutely, but you will be forever moved from any complacency that might have taken hold of your soul.

This book is one of the best books I have ever read and it is evidence based and well researched, explaining the workings of scientific discoveries about nature or nurture and the brain in a way that people of all science levels will be able to understand. It also does an excellent job of interspersing true, disturbing stories of child neglect and abuse with hope and practical tips for helping those we encounter in our lives who may have experienced these horrible things. The author does not bring in horrible stories to shock and does not dwell on them in a way that is unhelpful and just re traumatizing. This has been so helpful for me as a Master of Social Work student, but I also see how it could be beneficial for anyone working with kids, from teachers to foster parents, to just a family friend or a soon to be parent. Really, the lessons are easily transferable to all work with children and the book is also broken into manageable chapters.

As a professor of counseling, I consider this a must read book and recommend it to students regularly. As a professional counselor, I consider this a must read book and recommend it to clients. As a parent I consider this a must read book and recommend it to friends. As a human the stories in this book touched my soul. Every now and then a book comes along that is not trying to market something or sell you something else. Rather it truly is the wisdom of the author, and a life of experience, shared with others. This is one of those books, both easy to read and at the same time full of complexity, the author weaves narrative stories with research and academic knowledge in a very effective manner. The stories illustrate both the sadness of children who do not receive the attentive love they need, and the hope of effective interventions when we understand what is needed. The book is readable and valuable for both the lay person and the professional. This book is a paradigm shifter that does so quietly and with grace. The author makes no grandiose claims and writes so very respectfully of those he has encountered along his journey. I am very grateful this book was recommended to me and I highly recommend it to you.

Such a great book and I am interested in all things psych, and this is my favorite read yet. The author does an excellent job of telling each story while explaining the basic principles of psychology that apply to it, so that you are taking in some new or not so new information and seeing it in action. For me personally, this makes a huge difference in my ability to retain information. When there is a moving human story to relate it to, the information just sticks better. Whether you are interested in psychology or not, I would recommend everyone on Earth read this book. It gives you a better understanding of yourself and your fellow man.

Before adopting children, I worked for over ten years as a counselor. One of those years was at a residential treatment facility for behaviorally challenged children. Many of those children were reflected in similar stories in this book. I left because I felt the children needed more love and gentleness, not a strict behavior modification program. In 1997, we adopted a little boy who displayed quite a few of the behaviors in this book. I followed my instincts, met him where he was emotionally, and encouraged him to grow. This book really confirmed for me that we did all the right things despite what some experts advised. Although he will always be delayed, he is today a young man who is quite social and cares about others. I have highly recommended this book to other parents of post institutionalized children. Beyond the really applicable information, the writing is clear and not filled with incoherent psychobabble.