#196. The Last Lecture
#Randy Pausch
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Last-Lecture-Randy-Pausch/product-reviews/1401323251/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

If you are like my husband, and unable to read or talk about death, then this book will not be enjoyable for you. But if you are like me, and you have already faced your own mortality, the mentions of death, mortality and illness will not bother you. That is not really what the book is about, it is about living life fully, but to understand why he is giving the lecture, you have to know the circumstances of his life. The author had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, one of the scariest cancers with the highest mortality rates and the author was given months to live. According to his blog, he seems to have lived two years after diagnosis, thanks in part to a radical surgery shortly after diagnosis. The book is not a transcript of the lecture and I think I might have preferred to have viewed the lecture and it was written afterward, as the author went on long bike rides and his coauthor transcribed the conversation. It is something of a memoir, but the author tries to squeeze in as many life lessons as possible throughout. The most tangible, practical advice is contained in his time management section. When you have not got much time to live, you have not got any to waste, so here is a guy who knows the value of time management and I do like that he is not afraid to be corny.

I have had this book on my IPad for many months and I am afraid it would be preachy but that did not turn me off. The author is just a guy very full of himself and it seems so deservedly. This book is quite repetitive and learned a couple of interesting things about the IT world at a level in which I do not participate at all, just a consumer here. The best part was the amusing photos of the author sprinkled here and there, all of which reinforced a point he had made because of the way the book is organized. In the end, I did not feel sadness or empathy about the plight of the guy, early death, because it seems he handled it all so well and the author was so cheerful.

The best impact of the book is to realize that it is the people we impact that matter most after life is all said and done. While this book is a great testimony to the life of one man and may inspire you, I did not find it particularly inspiring. Since the author is writing about childhood dreams that came true, I could not see myself applying very much from he said to my life. Nevertheless, what a wonderfully cathartic experience to take life of someone and be able to chronicle it to preserve it for family and future generations.

This is not a book, taking the last lecture of this author and stretching it out into a book just did not work. Granted, it is horrid to know that you are dying, and not unusual to have a feeling about sharing someone experiences, life lessons, and hoping to make things easier for others that remain. But other than the lecture itself, you can see it on YouTube and elsewhere, the book is scattered and written by another and not very well. The book is preachy, and too much on you should to be beneficial and this kind of second person drama dose not work for me but obviously the majority of readers think differently. This book relies too much on the circumstances of the impending death of the author and therefore plays heavy on emotion, which is another pet peeve of mine. A better bet without all of that is mortality, now that one will really make you stop and think.

This book struck me as both true and regretful and this author certainly is quick to credit his parents for their love and providing opportunities for growth. On the other hand, the author is a self centered person, or ego and he was disappointing to me. I had expected more than the many reminders of how smart the author is, how accomplished, and how loyal to his kids. The childlike take on his own life is shown in his euphoric descriptions of doing sophisticated computer work for Disneyland and that may be the career goal of the author and his colleagues. An amusement park experience falls a bit short of the caring outreach mature people are focused on, whether church driven mission or otherwise. I guess we all need reminders that life can be short and we ought to live every day lovingly and full of zest, and give thanks in whatever passes for our version of prayers.

It is difficult to write something negative about what is obviously a labor of love from someone who passed away at such a young age, but I was disappointed with this book. After reading all the great reviews, I was expecting an uplifting book, one suggesting ways to deal with terminal illness in a more positive way through the authors personal experience. So far, to me, the book is just an autobiography of the authors accomplishments, with a lot of namedropping of people from the Technology Industry. Not being part of tech, the names flew right over my head, and I started getting bored with the book very quickly. Right now I am stuck about two third the way through, and the book will now rotate to the bottom of my night table pile.

Most of us, at some juncture of our lives, have heard the credo, you are not ready to live until you are ready to die. Unfortunately for nearly all of us, we do not heed these words until we hear the footsteps of the grim reaper outside of our bedroom door. The author is no exception, until he was made aware of his own mortality, the author ignored the wisdom that lies beyond the facade of this mysterious thought. The author lived his life as he had always lived it. The author went to his center of learning, gave little recognition to those around him, continued to force the focus of professional attention on his accomplishments and, although married with children, viewed this precious part of his life viewed as being secondary to his other and more measurable goals. It was only after the deathly diagnosis of the author that the reality of those around him became visible and he felt he could use them to get some last minute personal attention.

As my title suggests, depending upon what your expectations are from this book, you may be very satisfied or very unsatisfied after reading this book. I found the situation, in which this book was written, quite unique and therefore my expectations were quite high. The book chronicles incidents of this author from childhood to the present and there are some good learning lessons or advice, however, I was looking for something much deeper or at a different level. For instance, the author mentions how he was able to get into the Disney studios for the summer, a dream come true for him. While this may be interesting for some, I would have been more interested in what goes through the mind of a person when they are facing their mortality, when life is being fast forwarded at breakneck speed, what advice the author wants to give to his kids and so on. In any case, this book reads like a autobiography of the author and if you are okay with it, go ahead and buy, but keep your expectations in check.

Sometimes too much hype precedes a book, movie, event, and so it is with this book. I could not wait to get this book, and as I began reading it, I thought this book is going to get better and it did not. All of us do not have childhood dreams that come true. Often when I was young, sitting in the back seat of my parents Rambler, as we were riding to Grandma on a cold and snowing evening, I dreamed of myself ice skating in the street along side the car doing spins and turns and all sorts of things. I am glad that the author was able to put his life in writing for his children, although I was not at all interested in most of it, yet the lecture at the end has thoughts we can all aspire to, I guess.

Great book that I bought as a gift for someone to take while traveling. It was only when the book arrived that I realized it was a dual Japanese and English edition. I suppose I could have looked more closely at the cover picture, but I do not buy a book for its cover. Would have been nice to have mentioned that in the description, I specifically bought the paperback to be lightweight for someone to read while traveling. Now they will be carrying twice the weight in paper for absolutely no reason.