#197. Thank You for Arguing, Third Edition: What Aristotle, Lincoln, and Homer Simpson Can Teach Us About the Art of Persuasion
#Jay Heinrichs
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Thank-You-Arguing-Third-Persuasion/product-reviews/0804189935/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I have been utilizing this book for my college speech course for the last two years. The students sit in a circle and discuss two or three chapters depending on the length. Since I have thirty students and there are thirty chapters, each student is assigned a chapter and are the experts on the chapter and they teach what they learned. Also, the student prepares two or three discussion questions for students to generate discussion. It is an effective way to teach and I empower my students to teach each other and every day amazing things happen in the classroom. It is an enjoyable experience to walk into a classroom and have students excited to discuss the readings and participate in the class discussion readily. The book makes my teaching easy and the examples in the book allows us to have discussions on deeper topics. My students tell me that it is one of the only books they have actually read cover to cover. In fact, some students begin reading it again after we finish to get a deeper understanding of the material. As a college professor, I can tell you this never happens in other courses with textbooks.

I am an Language and Composition teacher, and my students read Thank You For Arguing throughout our study of rhetoric and argumentation. The author has crafted a text that makes otherwise complex topics accessible and very engaging for all of my students. The structure of the text is well organized and I love how he includes marginal notes for students to consider and practice on their own. At the back of the book, there is also a great section of practice and a glossary of all key concepts and terms. This book really has been the anchor to our study and a fantastic resource for my classes and I highly recommend this book.

As a teacher of AP English, I have assigned this book for the past five years, both the second and third editions, as a summer read for my students. All of my students learn the basics of rhetoric and rhetorical analysis from this book. Most importantly, students enjoy reading this book and because the difficult and sometimes obscure concepts are explained in an engaging and humorous way, my students remember what they have read months after the assignments and assessments are done. Although not all of my students agree with politics of this author and some of my students are raised in religious homes, I have never received a complaint from parents or students about the examples used to illustrate rhetorical strategies. This is one of the few books that I assign year after year.

I use this book with my AP Language and Composition classes, and when polled as to whether this book should remain as a class read, students overwhelmingly agree this book helps them understand the ins and outs of argument. My students find this book accessible, entertaining, and a good introduction to argument writing. They appreciate the text boxes offering definitions, further explanations, or short anecdotes that appear in the margin of many pages, finding them both engaging and useful for their understanding. In addition, many of them find The Tools section at the end of each chapter to be an excellent review of the chapter contents.

As an AP English Language and Composition teacher, this text is invaluable to helping my students with developing their argumentative writing. This text is informative, well organized, and helps my students by making difficult concepts much more approachable. Each edition just keeps getting better and better with relevant, relatable, and engaging for students. Many of my students have said this text has made them strong arguers in their everyday life as well as makes them more aware of when persuasive or argument strategies are being used on them.

There is a fuzzy line between arguing and manipulation and that line is sometimes crossed here. Have you ever noticed someone talking to you and clearly but subtly trying to manipulate you. It is slightly annoying and comes off as disingenuous, which the best rhetoric should not be at all. You get the sense that the author is trying to use his occasionally slightly manipulative tricks on you and it as well as the cultural references come off as a little bit tacky and this is a good book nonetheless. I would like to find a better book about rhetoric that comes at it with slightly more decorum and respect.

For years now, I have used this text as a required reading in my AP Language and Composition classes, and I cannot say enough wonderful things about it. It is a book that explains the basic elements and structure of argument and that can be a boring topic when most writers compose a guidebook, but the author creates a brilliantly fresh and relevant text here. The author uses real world, funny, politically relevant, and engaging examples for every idea, and he creates explanations that have an almost storytelling style to them that keep teenagers engaged. My kids, every year, have loved this book and say how thankful they are to have gotten to read it for our class.

I have used the previous edition and this one in my AP Language and Composition classes for the past five years and it is excellent. It is summer reading and referred to often throughout the school year. My students appreciate the overview before we even start class, and they enjoy trying the various argument techniques on their family members. It builds a nice foundation for my students and I have had students contact me after graduating to let me know that it is either been a required text in one of their college classes or has proved helpful when not required and I highly recommend the book.

Every now and then I pick up a business or self help book and I have no particular need for either, and I am not really sure which category this book properly belongs, but they can be interesting and eye opening. This is a guide to rhetoric, otherwise called the art of persuasion. Rhetoric used to be taught in school, and the author argues that our country has been going downhill since it stopped. I enjoyed this book, even after the author said it was used as a textbook. There is a teaching guide that you can get to used with the book if you wish to study the subject in depth and actually use it in your life and this book is not as dry as most textbooks. This book actually is very easy reading for such an important subject and I picked up a lot of this information in various classes in logic, listening, public speaking and introduction to philosophy classes. It is all here in one place, why is not rhetoric taught nowadays, I believe because it dose not serve the ruling class to have such an educated population and it would make us to hard to control.

The author understands teenagers, and though this is as helpful as a textbook, this book is written in a way that reaches the younger academic audience. I have assigned this text for summer reading in AP English Language and Composition for three years, and I am always pleased with how much my students have learned about rhetorical purpose and appeals. They apply the concepts outlined in the book to another text, and it helps them understand when and how the secondary author is making claims. The author includes a variety of clues regarding the ways people persuade, and he writes in an accessible manner. Students pick up on this book and start to see patterns on their own. Following the summer assignment of reading chapters one to thirteen, I use other chapters during the school year. Students have told me that they plan to reference the text outside of my class as it helps them remember important concepts of persuasion.