#199. The Love Dare
#Alex Kendrick
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Love-Dare-Alex-Kendrick/product-reviews/1433679590/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I am so grateful I took this leap of faith and my boyfriend and I are trying it as we are dating with intention of marriage. I absolutely love the change and I am seeing within myself which ultimately is changing the way he reacts to me. I went into this book thinking he was the one who needed it more but I was corrected on the first day. This book is teaching me to be kind and serve him without expecting anything back. The author has told me that he sees my efforts and it makes him want to be a better man, I will not lie, some days are easier than others but this book has helped guide us to let go and let God. We have both slowed down on magnifying what the other person is not and are appreciating everything the other person has to offer. We are picking our battles and processing truth verses feelings. Despite small bickering, we have not argued since we started this book because we are learning and finally both willing. The hand of God has never been stronger on our relationship and I do not think we have ever been happier.

This is just an absolutely amazing book and I bought it the first time in hardcover three years ago. This book sat on my shelf because God was not ready for me nor was I willing to really invest. My marriage suffered because I was a jerk, although we both shared issues, so here is the question, do you want to be right or do you want to be happy, take a really strong look in the mirror at yourself, instead of blaming others or your spouse like I did. You might be very unhappy with what you really see in regards to what kind of man or woman you are and men are you the husband you really should be, are you honoring your wife, do you love her unconditionally, do you know how to love without wanting anything in return. I am not a perfect husband, but I am learning and progressing at a fast pace, only because I wanted to, I wanted to change, I wanted to be a better man. If you think ready this book will change you, do not buy it, if you are really ready to be a different person, buy it, love it, and live it. When you start it, there is no excuse, read it for forty days and do every single thing it says, whether or not its hard or not, what I learned is how to unconditionally love my wife.

When I bought this for my husband, I did not realize how much it would also help me, and I wish I would have bought two of them. Most people who are looking to read this book are going through difficult times in their relationships, not only their marriage relationship, but also their spiritual relationship with God. This book helps people to remember what is truly important in life, and in my case helped save my marriage. We are all imperfect and fall short, and this might help you respond and deal with things in your life with love and kindness, instead of bitterness and anger. I highly recommend this book, and have bought it for family and friends who are also dealing with difficulties in their relationships.

I saw the movie Fireproof so I felt very compelled to buy the book that accompanied it. I loved this book so much that I ended up buying three copies, one for my fiance, and another for a friend of mine, as well as one for myself. If you are a Christian, whether your struggling in your marriage, thriving in it, or I would even go as far as to say if your struggling in your relationship with God, this book is definitely very helpful in helping you get to where you need. This book is most effective when you are putting your all into it, reading every single day, doing every task, and logging the results in the book.

This is our second time of doing the this book. My husband and I have been married nearly forty two years, but we have found that this book and completing the dares have opened channels of conversation and helped us realize that we have settled into a pattern of status that does not promote growth and certainly has hindered intimacy. You are never too old nor married too long to affect positive change in your relationship and I highly recommend this book.

If you are getting this book to help save a marriage or relationship, you have to be totally in. If you devote yourself to the book and your relationship it will be very had, this book also helped that I found a men think tank for ideas and support. If you find it easy, then I doubt whether you are totally into it. You do not have to be a Christian in order for these tasks to work for you. This book may feel like at times it is trying to convert a non believer into a Christian but as long as you can follow through with what you are reading by the end you can go on believing whatever you like. You might just find it comforting to talk to someone even if you can not see them and I am not a big reader so I found the short daily chapters to very easy for me.

I love how this book clearly challenges you to find new ways to spark fire in your marriage. This book pushed me to love my wife more by being a channel of God love, which is much more than I can ever bring to the table. I also love the fact that the authors press on the truth that if your walk is not improving with the Lord, then your marriage will not, either. This book really brings it back home to Christ and the transparency that we must have before Him, as followers of the way. I encourage every man and woman that is engaged, newlywed, or a veteran in marriage, to get this book. I also encourage those who are not married, to get it as a gift for those who are since it has tremendously changed my life.

This book in my opinion should be a book for couples who have just gotten married as it should be the book that teaches newly married couples how to be married. For couples who have been married for many years it is a book that will make yourself a better person and make your marriage much more stronger. The book made me the kind of person I should have been and made my marriage much more stronger. I think for couples who have a bad marriage and are wanting to quit on their marriage if they do the book exactly as it is written it can rekindle their marriage and make it better and stronger than it was. As for me I have a good marriage but the book helped me to be the kind of person I should have been and made my marriage much more stronger. I would recommended this book to newly married couples for the book on how to be married and for people who have been married for many years and have good marriages to have a stronger marriage and for people who are ready to quit on their marriage to rekindle their marriage and become stronger as a couple. If I could give the book more than five stars I would give it one million stars as that is how much it has helped me, thanks.

Contrary to other reviewers, I did not find this a rip off from Fireproof. After thirty years, even the most committed marriage can become routine, paving the way to me, first emotions and demands, this book let me look at marriage from another perspective that of its creator, and challenged me to live up to the standards. Win a good marriage has not been easy, especially through a recent accident that I went really ballistic after the shock, but once I calmed down, I immediately dropped the blame, and worked through the incident. I assure you, this is not my usual loose cannon persona, this is Christian based, get over it, note to all that this book is Christianity based. If that is a push button issue for you, do not read it, then get pissy over it.

I am finding this book to be very helpful for myself, but also for examining current and past relationships. The program is remarkable and I am a very spiritual person and I truly believe this book would help any relationship. This book teaches you how to let go of hurt or pain by focusing on the needs of others instead of yourself, truly a book of service in small steps toward finding greater love for others. Even if you are not a couple, it is very helpful to read on your own, since I realize not all spouses want to do this type of program. This book gave me a greater insight into myself, my weaknesses and how to approach them in a more open minded godlike sense. I am giving this book as gifts to my adult children for Christmas this year and what better gift than something to strengthen a marriage. I only have one thing I would change if it was rewritten, I would quote actual scriptures and not the living bible type which have man opinion written into them since I like to read scripture and decipher it for myself. This is an excellent book, very worth reading and studying.