#21. Out of the Dust: Story of an Unlikely Missionary
#Avis Goodhart
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Out-Dust-Story-Unlikely-Missionary-ebook/dp/B00NB51F5K/ref=pd_sim_351_3/143-9351789-5695144?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B00NB51F5K&pd_rd_r=ed84550e-4073-11e9-82f0-e14d346d11f0&pd_rd_w=VKsMR&pd_rd_wg=4dc7S&pf_rd_p=90485860-83e9-4fd9-b838-b28a9b7fda30&pf_rd_r=4QQ8F1SW2ADG1M1YB51F&psc=1&refRID=4QQ8F1SW2ADG1M1YB51F

In reading this story you soon see it is not herself that she seeks to glorify or uplift, it is only the amazing, healing, restoring God she serves that she gives honor and praise too. Through her story she encourages the reader to look beyond the current circumstances of their situation and see how God is working through them. I encourage everyone to read Out of the Dust but not to stop with just that action. Once you have read Avis story honestly ask God to show you what he is asking you to do, then jump in with both feet and allow God to write his story on your life.

All the proceeds from this book go directly to the orphanage and school. Since the first shovel of dirt was turned over, Avis has completely dedicated herself to bringing the vision God gave her to life, so much so. The author sold every possession she had including her home to help fund the vision and She is a hard working, dedicated, and self giving person.

Great biography, witnessing to God faithfulness and ability to work through us, in the good times and bad. I appreciate Avis honesty and vulnerability in sharing so much personal info. Lessons learned from failures in the mission field would be a good thing to have more of, to learn from.

I loved this book and it made me want to sell everything and fulfill my dream of being a medical missionary in the Congo. My parents prevented me much the same as Avis was discouraged. I admire this woman greatly for having allowed God to work his plan through her and help so many suffering people.

The life story is an amazing journey that not only tells the good work being done by this extraordinary woman, but what she went through to get to the place she is today. It is always amazing to me to see the faith people have in spite of or maybe because of the hardships life hands them. Interesting book about faith, heart ache and great blessings and the author she be commended for her good works and for sharing this story with readers.

I truly loved hearing how God has worked, using Avis Goodhart, to touch the lives of so many people through the years. It is always a good reminder that God can and will use us, no matter our imperfections and lacks. The message this book holds is worth the reading, and I am praying that God will use it to inspire more of us to answer his call, wherever, and whoever we may be.

This is the story of the missionary that the author has a missions in Peru where she helps women and children. Having gone through abuse as she grew up, her experience of what she went through helped her on the mission field to help others. I know myself I have been through some bad situations only to see down the road how the lord could use me to help others with same problems. We need to keep a open heart and let the Lord use us where he needs us and the author has done a wonderful work in Peru. Having faith in God would provide for her and protect her to help his children. There are many particles of sand in the dust will you be that one little piece to serve God and to help his children and I love stories of missionaries those who bow down with a humble heart.

This a wonderful book to inspire you to follow Jesus completely no matter what your background, no matter what you have been through and the struggles you might have. God can use anybody who is willing and he will take the broken pieces of your life and be able to use them for his glory and help you to minister to others. This is what Avis, the unlikely missionary has found out and this is what we can find out too when we allow him to life us out of the dust.

As someone who does not consider themselves highly religious, I was not sure what I was going to think about this book. Imagine my surprise when I picked it up, started reading and did not put it down again until I was done and I even tried to and failed. Avis story is one that will draw you in, along with the fact that the book reads as if she is talking to a dear friend. Even if you do not consider yourself a Christian, I think that you could find this to be an inspiring read and Avis life is amazing and so is her faith and her strength.

Awesome book, just got started and can hardly put it down, so inspiring what God can and will do if we just yield our lives to him and quit making excuses for why we can not. The heart Avis has for others and her willingness to give of her life to so profoundly help others will challenge you in your own walk with God.