#23. Get Lucky: A Romantic Comedy (Lucky in Love Book 1)
#Lila Monroe
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Get-Lucky-Romantic-Comedy-Love-ebook/product-reviews/B01LD99IAO/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_3?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=3

Maybe romantic might be a stretch, basically you have two people who have nothing in common other than they are hot for each others bodies and they get absolutely wasted and ensue. Generic guy number 487, he likes Deadpool and is a divorce lawyer and he has a giant stick up his butt for everything and is not all that pleasant. I am supposed to love the protagonist since he takes more than money, a pretty body, and nice tackle. The protagonist actually has to have intelligence and interests and his personality actually has to have some redeeming qualities.

I liked the characters and the steam was definitely there but the writing seems a little juvenile otherwise. The characters did not have a whole lot of depth developed. It was like the back story were there but unfinished and it made it difficult to really emotionally connect.

Julia and Nate wake up hungover in a Vegas hotel room without a whole lot of memory of their night before. What is apparent is that the two of them are married, but with Julia lack of memory, they do not know where to even start to work on getting the marriage annulled. Nate just happens to be a divorce lawyer, jaded by all things love, so he can not get it annulled fast enough. The two then set out on an amusing journey to find the answers of the night before.

There were some funny moments, sexy moments and even a dash of drama and it all mixed well together and what did not work for me was the character development. There was very little info on the main characters other than what they did for a living and both had been through a breakup in the last year. No mention of parents, sibling or whether or not they were only children and the author did mention her mother several times, but never by name or if the father was even around.

It was not a bad read per say, it just was not good either and I felt like there were too many references to things that people who did not know that reference may not get. I love doctor who, but all the references were just too much and I felt like it was working to hard at trying to be funny and fell very short. The secondary characters were strange and not in a good way and it just was not my cup of tea but that does not mean it would not be yours.

This book is a prime example of why I feel the reviews are not all real, if they are, then damn some of you people are pathetically beyond easy to please. Most of the reviews ranted about how funny this book was, I love funny and I think they omitted the funny parts in my book. The description and the book flow was extremely choppy throughout the book, to put it mildly, this is was and forever will be a major pass.

The book starts out when our two lovers wake up and discover each other in their birthday suits, Julia and Nate are both at crossroads in their life. The inner dialogue of Julia is hilarious and the book has a great sense of humor, but the flashbacks from what happened last night to present time are a little confusing. Partly due to the fact you get Nate in past then the next chapter you get the same scene you read in Julia or possible your now in present time, however, if you looking for a lite fun read I would recommend.

I have read a lot of books but this one I could not keep up with the story line. I can not say exactly why I did not like it because it was a lot of reasons not just one and I do not recommend and I am glad I got it for free.

A romance writer experiences something like her plots while at a conference in Las Vegas. Most of the plot itself was entertaining, but I really did not care for the soft porn throughout and I ended up skimming to skip those parts. I suppose that is the point of romance novels but, for me, it detracted from the book.

Overall I enjoyed this book and it had a lot of elements I love, funny, witty, fast paced, a bit screwball and I enjoyed the writing style and would read other books by this author. However it did fall a little flat for me because I did not like and could not connect with the heroine, if not for that it would have been four stars.