#24. WHEREAS: Poems
#Layli Long Soldier
#URL https://www.amazon.com/WHEREAS-Poems-Layli-Long-Soldier/product-reviews/1555977677/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Every American should read these poems and everyone who loves poetry should read them. Everyone who cares about history should read them and they are deeply moving and deeply humane.

This poet brings together history, amazing perspectives, beautiful language and a contemporary look at native American issues entwined with the artistry of the poet. I will be using some of her poems in high school classes this year.

Beautiful poems by talented native American poet and this book is in response to the apology issued by the US government to the native Americans. I appreciated the opportunity not only to read beautiful poetry, but to become more educated on the native American point of view. I have heard it said that how am I supposed to understand their point of view and answer that you can begin by listening. This book helped me immensely to listen, highly recommended.

A powerful voice straight from the heart that deserves to be heard by all, honest, inspiring, beautiful. Thank you, Layli Long Soldier for speaking your truth and delivering it with such elegance.

Native American Sioux poet artfully rearranges the English language to discuss the experiences of her people and the not so public government apology made by President Obama. Her work plays with line breaks and the way words look on a page and she puts Emily Dickinson to shame. Truly brilliant work that I will go back to read again and again, very thought provoking and inspiring.

Good book of poems and the book gave me the point of view from the life of Layli Long Soldier much of which is a new way of seeing for me. I struggled with some of the poems, but poetry should not necessarily be easy. I found it worth full price and my time read and mull the collection.

This was a gorgeous collection, both the poems in front but especially the Whereas portion. The poetry written by this author is biting and funny and wrenching and so thought provoking. There were so many great lines that were moving, and the style seemed constantly in motion, always shifting, never settling, which made for a really refreshing reading experience. I cannot encourage folks to read this enough, it is really beautiful.

The asks in this book, her commanding and utterly necessary collection, this query informing the book as a whole, Long Soldier deftly employing a poetic of fracture, erasure, and obscuration toward attacking the American empire innumerable, and woefully ongoing, lies to and betrayals of native Americans. Long Soldier lyrical indictment of oppressive legalese, not to mention oppressive language generally, absolutely astonishing in its rigor and ingenuity.

The personal and political are indelibly fused, especially in the long eponymous sequence, with allusions to Derrida, Acts of Congress, Declarations, a fourteen year old girl letter to an editor, and to Long Soldier own family experiences. The poet use of collage, language, and concrete poetry ironically deploying the legalese of treaties and US official and meaningless apologies are also powerfully effective, highly recommended.

A beautiful invitation to walk among the grasses and listen to the stories there, a gorgeous book of poems. Long Soldier work is visceral, alive, moving, active, activist, memorial and memory. The artful use of space in each poem creates breath and movement, deconstructs language, ideas, and individual words. The arrangements create layers of meaning like the sound on the page. I read her work and I am reminded of the power of poetry to interrupt the common narrative and give voice to missing history and heal it.