#25. The Gulf: The Making of An American Sea
#Jack E. Davis
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1631494023/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_2_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-4&pf_rd_r=1HYPYX72HJMMGHK7XS9V&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=6d45d87f-f7c8-4fd5-9fba-1433377165e7&pf_rd_i=6960520011

I bought the hard copy, thinking I was going to really enjoy. I was very wrong. Did not make it past the first one hundred pages, then hopscotched through the book, but without finding much interesting stuff. Feels like reading Yahoo, fluffy news stories, not going anywhere, written for people who do not like to read much.

Some of the reviews indicate that the book reads like a novel and I found the book to be tedious and boring. I had to put it down after two hundred pages as I lost interest. Perhaps if I lived on the Gulf I might have found this book more interesting.

Book was used for Book Club as well as One Pass One Book, a Pass Christian civic project where author will speak. Book was interesting in some chapters but tedious in others.

I am sure this is just a reflection on me, but I had really serious trouble trying to get into the book. I am interested in the Gulf itself, but the author seems more interested in the people who have been there. Then when the author gets to the various mounds peoples, instead of writing directly about them, he writes about the archaeologists who investigated the mounds and other remains. Writing about the natural elements of the Gulf is again almost entirely through the eyes of people who fish and farm there, or travel across it, and descriptions of the natural world are always interrupted by anecdotes about people.

There are too few maps and other illustrations, and one map of the Gulf is identified simply as the Gulf of Mexico in the age of European conquest, which could be anywhere from 1492 to the issues over Cuba in the early 1960. The wonderful frontispiece picture of some beach, is not identified at all. What the author calls Winslow Homer truth, the vital connection linking humankind, nature, and history, turns out here to be mainly humankind. This book had interesting information, but was in need of a good editor.

Loved the quality and grace of the writing particularly in the early chapters and the later portions of the book assumed the preachy quality of the contemporary university professor. Even so, there is validity in making the case that we can, and must, repair the damage humankind has rendered to this wonderful American Sea.

The book started off as a history, but about quickly became just an description of the environmental status of the gulf. You will get descriptions of every type of bird, fish, mollusk, and plant species found around the gulf. If you are really looking for a history of the Gulf of Mexico, and all that has transpired on or around it, this is not the book. This book is a history of the environmental exploitation and damage of the Gulf and it works well as an environmental call to arms, for wetlands protection, regulations on offshore drilling, curbs on fertilizer use, and so forth, as a history, this book leaves a lot to be desired.

Honestly, this book could have been half the length and in almost every chapter, about halfway through I just started skimming and this book, unfortunately, remains to be written. A good editor could easily have pruned half the book, making it more readable, or leaving room for actual history that the book advertises it is supposed to be about.

Here is a quote in the first chapter that the Gulf calls you to partake in its essential self, to dangle bare feet off the edge of a weather grayed dock. This book appears to be twenty percent interesting and eighty percent meaningless prose like the above, can I get a refund.

The subject matter is compelling, and surely, the author has done a great deal of research but the prose comes across as tortured and I am surprised by the number of positive reviews. Even a straightforward, subject verb object type of sentence would be preferable to the needlessly convoluted writing style that pervades the book. I have read articles in scientific journals that are more enjoyable. It pains me to criticize the writing so bluntly, when the subject of the Gulf deserves attention.