#28. Provenance
#Ann Leckie
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B06XW6YTKV/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_4_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-12&pf_rd_r=1HYPYX72HJMMGHK7XS9V&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=973dbf15-0a1d-485e-bf1a-c3481ae57178&pf_rd_i=6960520011

I read the entire Ancillary series and Loved it and great characters, great plot, great pacing, and a fascinating non standard perspective on how a space faring human or AI culture might evolve. I eagerly purchased Provenance straight afterwards, expecting another great read and the premise of the story is ordinary. After hundreds pages, I just plain gave up, which I very seldom do and I am honestly puzzled at the good reviews.

None of the characters are particularly well formed and most pursue needlessly convoluted undertakings that are generally motivated by perceived emotional slights. Some of the social aspects show potential, but too often key details seem missing. On the other hand, it is well paced with few lulls and nothing in this book makes me want to go out and read her others.

It is in the same universe as the Ancillary series, but the scope got smaller that the different human races were confusing to keep separate. It was like a political thriller, but I did not really understand who the parties were, or even what was at stake. Also, the main character was to hard to be empathetic towards, she constantly was looking for approval from her mom, not really somebody you can get behind.

Sorry, but the plot is convoluted and boring and the author just keeps throwing in new plot twists, but it is not clear how all these coincidences keep happening. The main character is not particularly interesting since she bounces around the crazy plot like it is no big deal. The supporting characters are straight out of someone freshman creative writing assignment about evil brother and I liked Anne Leckie Ancillary trilogy, but this book falls short. Reading the gender neutral pronouns does not add flavor, it is just annoying, does it serve a purpose for the plot or characters, no it is just a gimmick.

I have read and enjoyed all the work I can find from this author, until this book. The incessant use of letter for he or she and for his or her drove me crazy after a while and I had to abandon this novel. Was it a plot device, if so, it added nothing and was severely distracting and if it was merely a commentary on current politics of society, then I am severely disappointed. I hope you do not find this as annoying as I did, because otherwise, she is a great author.

Seems like a book for teens, unlike Leckie earlier trilogy which I loved the plot is murky, relationships between the cultures is unclear. The story gets lost in the glut of young women heroine stories without this character seeming particularly heroic and I was intrigued by the theme of vestiges and what historically counts for us. This book is worth preserving and the stories behind these, but the author never really develops this and I am hipping for a better next book.

What happens when a good science fiction writer takes an intellectual vacation and Ann Leckie is really quite a good writer, unfortunately this book is not representative of that skill. Whether it is the lack of probable science, dropped plot points, or just that this seems like a rush job, I could not read a third of it without bailing out and finding something more readable.

The other three books in ancillary series were awesome but this one was boring, uninspired, not really detailed. The story felt flat, like a different author wrote it or was forced to write it, sounded like following a jealous insecure adolescent cry baby around tripping on her feet. The characters and their interaction were bland and I do not know but the pacing was way off. Anyone reading this, if you have not read ancillary justice and the sequels just go there, they are excellent.

I would say this book is one of my favorite series of the last thirty years and such a confusing, fresh, and ultimately clearly new and novel take on self hood with very satisfying gender themes too. This little book seemed like a school girl giggle and there were actually hints of deeper ideas here. Is there some kind of AI presence, but no, none of these really interesting hints find fruition, maybe there are more books coming.

The excessive mixed use of the New English words and the normal English words totally destroys the ability of me as a reader for over sixty years to maintain a sense of continuity. When the writer decides to be cute in using these two words and then uses the regular words, in the same paragraphs it becomes impossible to read. I could not got more than half way into the first chapter, and would have thrown the book away if it had been physical but I do not do that often.