#31. The Priory of the Orange Tree
#Samantha Shannon
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Priory-Orange-Tree-Samantha-Shannon/product-reviews/1635570298/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_2?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=2

If you are not big into long reads, and you are perfect novel is roughly hundreds pages long, you might have a hard time here, but if you are willing to give this book a go, there is something so satisfying about a self contained, one volume fantasy epic. The whole story is there, in one big volume, no waiting for sequels and I did not realize just how sequel fatigued I have been until I sat down and made my way through this book. No mentally steeling myself for a cliffhanger followed by a two year wait and I have not felt this way about an epic fantasy novel, who knew you can have an entire world confined to one volume.

This book was so worth the four year wait and I remember when the author was talking about writing something that was not of The Bone Season world. It was not until she finally announced that it was a book that was going to involve dragons, forbidden magic, and romance where I was finally like I need this in my life.

Five stars for the book contents and I am not finished but so far am loving this very much. One Star because I received my copy with a broken binding and thought about sending it back but have waited so long for it to come out I did not want to wait to get another copy, so taped it and dug in.

I devoured this book in defiance of all schedules and productivity and the joy of discovering and exploring historical analogues with dragons and witches and lesbians was incandescent. Just really marvelous stuff and I was charmed through any book with a section heading can not help but be perfectly wonderful, will be recommending all over the place.

If you are at all involved it the bookish community, you will most probably have heard of The Priory of the Orange Tree by Samantha Shannon, coming out February 2019. Therefore, I was so excited to read an early excerpt, which in turn got me so thrilled to read the entire book when it comes out. I had not even read any of Samantha Shannon other books pertaining to The Bone Season, but I think I might just have to change that after reading this.

Epic Fantasy is always dicey when it comes to being epic and it has to be on a time stretching, world encompassing scale comprised of the culmination of a series of events. The events in this book will crack the pillars of the society and decide the fates of all civilizations as it sweeps up folks from all known realms in its wake and the wake not all parties will survive and those that do are forever changed.

As usual, let me start with the narrator, her skill with accents is likewise incredible. I have never listened to an audio book read by Liyah Summers before, and after hearing this I can not understand why. The narrator is absolutely one of the top talents in the business and she has impressive vocal range, giving us a wonderful assortment of voices, and even her male voices are widely varied and sound amazing.

I took a chance on this novel as normally and I am very picky about what fantasy books I read. This book was epic with characters that I really cared about and interesting plot twists. Well written and it was a fun couple of days to read this book. I appreciated that the book had a variety of strong female and male characters as well as a variety of love relationships to include a gay couple and lesbian couple. Great fantasy book, calling it right now, favorite book of this year. It was magical and I loved the characters and their growth, as well as the magical storytelling.

Authors who can interweave so many small threads into a beautiful tapestry such as this are hard to find, and Shannon absolutely excels with this novel. If you are a fan of fantasy, dragons, bad ass women, amazing storytelling, rich world building and legends, pick this up and devour it, then come talk to me about it.

A little rocky at first, but I was hooked after the first few chapters. I was given an exclusive early excerpt for my honest review and after reading it I can say that The Priory of the Orange Tree is a promise of a tale that will leave you breathless and in awe, as fantasy meets adventure. I am honestly so excited to see how the rest of this story plays out when it is released in February.