#33. The Velveteen Rabbit
#Margery Williams
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Velveteen-Rabbit-Margery-Williams-ebook/product-reviews/B071LCZ8SP/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

This is the classic story of the Velveteen Rabbit and it is wonderful and I recommend it for everyone, kids and adults. But be careful, this copy says it is the original edition but it is not the same as the original and I do not know about the one written in 1922 but I have a copy from 1970 and this one is different. I was expecting it to be the same as my 1970 version but this one is bigger, the cover and dust jacket are a different color from the original, the pages are a horrible shade of tan and the coloring in the photos is different. There are many cute versions of this book but it you want the original or something close to it, this is not it.

My child only got through a few sentences before she told me this is not the right one. It has a girl named Hannah instead of a boy and I looked at it and my child was right, since this is not the original Velveteen Rabbit that we all know and love. Someone personalized it as a vanity project for their own kid Hannah and uploaded it as if it were the original, and gave no indication that they did this in the book description. I feel like they stole money from me and am pissed and I am glad my daughter already knew the book was supposed to have a boy, or she would have failed her school report, shame on whoever did this.

I cannot believe how terrible this product is and this appears to be a bootleg copy and pages appear to be photocopied. The pages were cut improperly and so the letters slant at an angle across the page. I could not believe it when I opened this up and found that letters are not even straight across the page. Never have I been more dissatisfied with a purchase and this item needs to be removed from available products immediately.

I grew up loving this story, but I have to admit that today grandchild needs some pictures. I am an animated, sound effect expert, alternate voice kind of orator, but I had to buy the modernized version of the story with pictures for my little Jaxson. It is an unfortunate truth that today kids are conditioned to have more than just their imaginations for reference and it is nice to have a copy of the original version for my library.

This is a wonderful book, but do not buy this edition since they have taken the lovely color illustrations and made them black and white, then they have reduced them to about half size. You can hardly tell what the pictures are portraying and I intend to donate this book to my library and order one with the color pictures.

The front book jacket and first page of the book had an address label of the former owner stuck to them. Sure prior owner would not want her addressed out for the world to view so I crossed it out before attaching these photos. The Like new book is useless as the gift for which I purchased it, can not rate lower than one star or I would.

This book is typeset as if it is printed on word and it does not look like a professionally printed book. There are page numbers including the total, as in a word document. In fact, there is no publisher and there is a note that it was printed in Kentucky on the day I ordered it and this is not what I expected.

I think this version is the best abridged version and a little bit delicately feeling and many new words for my 4 year old sons to learn, but when we listened to CD, it was too fast. The woman that read the book on CD may not breath in a long sentence, it is a pain to listen. It is not like such a story time that I would expected and it is like the narrator wanted to finish reading as soon as possible. And sometime she laugh in a content that no reason to laugh and she read it in beautiful voice, but she did not try enough to tell the story to very young children, to understand and have enough silent time to imagine the picture.

The Velveteen Rabbit is a classic in any format, but really needs to be read to the young in hardback or paper. The illustrations are fine and the story is the same, but how can you read a story about a toy becoming real on a mechanical device. Books too need to become real for children and that experience does not translate well for this story.

I purchased this particular version because it said it was illustrated, but that is not the case. The illustrations consist of tiny thumbnails at the beginning or end of each section and that is hardly enough to hold the attention of a toddler. The story is still there and is very well written and this just was not what I had in mind, very disappointed.