#35. Friends Like These: A gripping psychological thriller with a shocking twist
#Sarah Alderson
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Friends-Like-These-gripping-psychological-ebook/product-reviews/B07KF99237/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

The only word I can think of this book is devoured since it is one of the best books I have read in two years. Everything was right on target, characters true to life, writing style so good it flew by. For the plot, the plot was like driving a race car through a twisty road where the scenery changes at every turn and I will not forget the characters anytime soon. This book left an indelible impression and I can not wait for her next book, just blown away. I would have rated it five plus stars if that was an option, so anyway, get the book.

So many times I have picked up a new book touted as a mind bending thriller with shocking twists only to figure out the culprit halfway through the full of plot holes. Not with this book, this truly is a freight train of a story, written with much skill, and a protagonist that has just the right amount of malice and wit. The end was truly not seen coming and I could not put it down once I got into the story.

First off, let me admit here that I usually read at a slug pace and it takes a good story to speed me up. I read this book in just a few days and I thought it was well written, and I loved the twists in it. I also think the title fits the story line perfectly, thank you for the good reading experience.

This was a great book and I am not the fastest reader and I read this in a few days because I stayed up late most nights reading. My only complaint would be that there is very little information out there on the story line. Anyway, many twists and turns I did not see coming and I really wish there was somewhere I could talk with folks about that ending.

One of my favorite thrillers I read this year, more than a five star, completely original, scary, tense, thrilling, and chilling. Who needs any friends, with these type of friends and I want to let the reading Pub know how absolutely amazing it was.

This is quite a story and you feel so sorry for the wrong person. I will not name names, I do not want to take the thrill away from any readers. I do have a complaint about grammatical errors and a few occur during direct quotations by one of the characters. But my sticking point in any looking past such errors is that these people work in the publishing industry, so their grammar ought to be too top and this is a complaint that I make about nearly every publication that I read.

This was a fantastic book which was fast paced and one that I could not put down and it is one of the best books I have read over the past year. What you think you know about the characters is all wrong and I liked the ending, and there was a good twist, however, I was hoping for one more final twist, which was why I did not give this book five stars.

This book was really good and the only issue I had with it was the title and synopsis since these women were not friends and they never were. Even one of the reviews says who needs any friends with these types of friends, but again, they never were friends. If you can get past that little bit of weirdness, it was a good solid psychological thriller, one of the best that I have read in a while.

This is the first book I have read by this author and I will definitely look for others. This book takes us from a wrong message on social media to crazy twists and turns between Becca and Lizzie and James. I could not stop reading until I found out what was going on. I was definitely surprised and the fast pace of it helped to keep me from guessing much before the twist came.

I have not read a book this enthralling, entertaining and capturing in a long time. Lizzie and Becca and James, how their lives intertwined and who did what to whom is as mysterious and incredible as one could imagine. The author plays with their sanity and brings us along for the ride and a terrific story with an ending that had me holding my breath, worth reading.