#37. Journey Interrupted: A Family Without a Country in a World at War
#Hildegarde Mahoney
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Journey-Interrupted-Family-Without-Country-ebook/product-reviews/B018ER7ILE/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

To compare this book to any story of the hardships suffered during WWII is an insult to the millions who actually did suffer. This is a self serving memoir of a rich girl successful life, an attention grab for her perceived suffering. And then, in the end you will be rewarded with the story of her successful and exciting modeling career before she goes on to marry a millionaire. Do not be misled, this is nothing more than thinly disguised complaining about travel delays and do not waste your time and money.

This is an interesting story that is poorly told and adult memoirs generally are from a point of some reflection on past events but this one seems to be more from the perspective of the child who never went below the surface or beyond the moment. The book would have been better in telling of the journey ended sooner or was summed up with far fewer words and details than the author used. The years following the family return were particularly tedious, devolving into more of a self promotion than anything else. This was a close knit, loving family, blessed with resources far beyond those of other displaced, transient souls of that time. I did not get the impression that the author ever had much appreciation for the misery and struggle that went on and this self satisfied and self focus took away from the totality for me.

I found this book shallow and Germany in the forty was a tragic place to be if you were Jewish, handicapped, Polish, educated, professional and anything else that did not agree with Hitler. This was a family that seemed to feel entitled and I wonder if they ever hid and cared for anyone that was trying to evade Hitler and I need to admire the author of a biography, I feel no admiration for this family.

I really have a difficult time assessing this lady story and perhaps it is prejudice against Germans of that era and my feelings that the ongoing terror in their country is not more than a few footnotes in her story. Her parents seem to have been wonderful and taught their children well and the protagonist seems to be somewhat of an elitist snob who certainly ended up in all the right places after their ordeals in Japan and Germany. I can not help feel that they still got through in fairly good form and were more than fortunate to survive and prosper.

I had expected a story describing the horrors of war, injustice, and loss of loved ones, instead, this family fared better than I expected as they rode out WWII in Japan and the aftermath of WWII in Germany. The thing that I found most striking and enlightening was how much better the Japanese treated this family compared to how Americans treated Japanese Americans during WWII and there is even a happy ending.

This book was utterly painful to read and I am amazed the author had the audacity to write about their tragic hardships such as not having a cook, housekeeper, or the upscale accommodations she was accustomed to during a time when people were literally being exterminated. This book should never have been published. Unless you enjoy reading about privileged rich people problems, find yourself another book.

Snoring account of a wealthy German, an American family stuck in Japan during WWII, and then Germany, before being able to go back to USA. They had to survive private schools, parties, less than first class travel, and some hunger, all with the help of wealthy connections and family, while remaining insulated from most of the war.

The author has lived a very adventurous and exciting life. It is too bad that the style of writing makes it sound like a dull day at the park. This book is more a list of events than a true biography.

This would probably be of interest if you are a relative of the family seeking family history. As book to be read by the general public, it is simply reading a strangers diary. That may be of interest to some readers, but, again, it lends itself to be more a personal diary than a book and I am generous in giving it three stars.

Really liked the different view into the wartime and I thought the whole book was extremely drawn out with some details that were less than interesting but the idea of suffering was, at some times, a little hard to take. While their families were moving from one house to another, six million Jews and millions of others were being gassed and I guess suffering is relative.