#39. True Miracles: Stories That Will Increase Your Faith
#Adam Houge
#URL https://www.amazon.com/True-Miracles-Stories-Increase-Faith-ebook/product-reviews/B00LMJF5PS/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I started reading True Miracles Stories That Will Increase Your Faith by Adam and god started blessing and giving me strength and peace that everything was going to work out. And the next day my son called me to tell me he was alright, thank you Adam for writing such a powerful book.

This book is easy to read, packed full of truths written in a way that is easy to understand. Seekers will be satisfied and believers will be challenged and I highly recommend putting into practice the principles and concepts taught in this book.

Not only does this book give accounts of God love and miracles, it gives us life and prayer instructions. I love that the author went further than just the stories of God miraculous intervention and answered prayer. He cares enough about each one of us who read this book to give us instructions for our prayer life and our relationship with the Father. I think that is the heart of the father showing forth in his son, awesome.

The first part of the book are stories of miracles people have shared to increase your faith, and the second half is a kind of devotional with encouraging reminders of what the Lord has for us if we seek him. I would recommend this book to anyone needing reminded that god is faithful.

Still reading between this and When God Makes Lemonade, it lives me feeling so much closer to Our Heavenly Family that awaits us. These are exactly what our soul needs when we feel like we have been forgotten, best medicine yet.

These short little stories are so good for the soul, remembering that God is still in the miracle business today. Reading the proof is so very good for my soul, thank you for sharing.

A wonderful collection of short miracle stories and I was so touched and encouraged by these stories. I would highly recommend this book to anyone, and my faith has been boosted.

What a faith builder, this book is an easy read and could be used as a daily meditation of the sheer awesomeness of God and his caring and love splashed through every page. Each story is a glimpse of how involved God wants to be in your life, please read this book and recommend to your friends and love ones and This book is a treasure.

Adams book is very insightful since the author helps us to realize the comfort there is when our faith grows. And, the author also helps us understand the closeness we must strive for when approaching our creator.

I was reading some pretty impressive stories till the time I came to the lady almost dying from a burning building. The lord told her to jump off the roof with over a one hundred feet drop and she did it and lived. What an awesome God we serve that he would suspend gravity like that and save her life. This is just one of many encouraging stories in this book and I commend this book to you.