#41. Less (Winner of the Pulitzer Prize): A Novel
#Andrew Sean Greer
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Less-Winner-Pulitzer-Prize-Novel/product-reviews/0316316121/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&filterByStar=critical&reviewerType=all_reviews

What was the Pulitzer Group thinking, based on the Pulitzer designation and based on some of the endorsements from favorite writers, my book club chose this book and all of us disliked it. The criticisms were that the main character was uninteresting, unsympathetic and not relatable. The paltry humor was only mildly amusing, not hysterical as one endorsement said and the ending was predictable and anticlimactic. We finished reading it out of duty to the club, not because the book was compelling. The only redeeming aspect was the interesting way the author would weave past and present together in the narrative. I cannot recommend this book and the Pulitzer people need to reexamine their standards.

If you are looking for a book about a neurotic gay man to whom nothing really interesting happens, and who spends an inordinate amount of time lamenting the loss of a former partner, then you will like this book. But if you are looking for a book with interesting characters and an actual plot, look elsewhere.

I am encouraged to see that I am not the only one who thought this book was not so hot. After reading all the pages of raving blurbs, I thought I would really be in for a treat, but I could not believe in it. I spent so much energy slogging through the writer attempts to be clever in every single sentence that I could not get involved with the character or story. I will admit that I laughed out loud a few times and that is a lot more than I get out of the majority of books I read. Overall it was tedious, difficult reading and I was left wondering if this book was just part of the title, a bit of irony based on older lover is having won the prize.

There are some beautiful turns of phrase in here, and some good characters and an interesting story. I read it and enjoyed it, but it just did not have enough of anything. Characters were not deep enough or real enough, writing was not amazing enough, story was not interesting enough and it needed more, shame on you.

Tried, but could not finish and I rarely stop reading a book, but this one did not capture my interest in any way. Whatever creative reason there was for the unjustified type, it was lost on me. The book seemed to be one gay sexual reference after another, and I could not find much more to it. Passed along to other family members who were similarly uninterested and also passed on finishing, not sure how this book got great reviews.

Unlike some reviewers, I could not wait to finish this book and I did not find it humorous, endearing, or an interesting travelogue. It is the story of a sap who has the misfortune of having a poor love life and I could not muster up any feelings toward the character, or any other in the book. I have no idea why it won an award, except if it is because it is a gay love story, but I do not think I would have liked it if it were heterosexual, just a dumb book.

I am dragging myself over the finish line with this novel and it is hard to care about unlikable characters. And although the episodic travel gimmick might have seemed like an interesting hook, it never stops feeling gimmicky, the intended humorous elements mechanically predictable.

I may not be the ideal target for gay literature and it was way too much sexually focused with no compensating quality in any other department. Really disappointing and why would a work like this get the prize.

The synopsis of this book refers to it as hilarious and it is not, suffered through it for my book club, could not wait for it to be over. Someone who travels the world but remains exactly the same does not make for an interesting person to read about. The last line was one of the worst last lines of any book I have ever read, predictable and not entertaining.

I really could care less about the protagonist boring self absorption. I did not stop reading because I did not like the character, I stopped reading because who cares.