#44. Party Girl (The Girls)
#Rachel Hollis
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Party-Girl-Girls-Rachel-Hollis/product-reviews/1477820663/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I love the author but this book is the epitome of cheesy and obvious. I skipped over a lot of inner monologue because I could not take the optimism. Characters need flaws and they need to see other characters for who they are. That is what makes them real and Landon sees everyone in her life as too wonderful. It gets annoying and overbearing and my opinion of her has lessened just a bit, no more fiction, stick to the self help sector.

The writer is a party planner, so I would think she might have thrown a bit more dirt in there. Only the bitchy boss makes for any conflict and even she is not terribly original. The story is just very light, neat and predictable and well written when it is about the party planning aspect but everything is just too predicable. And, while I liked Landon, the other characters were very thin, especially the love interest and it was a fun read but nothing that will stick with you.

No depth to characters and the plot was jumpy and I could never really get into it. Wanted to quit about halfway through but figured I might as well finish it, will not be reading book two.

This novel starts out really poorly, with a plethora of dumb girl bits, but gradually gets some better as it progresses. This story is nothing new, naive girl, wicked boss and handsome stranger. If you are in to anything celebrity, you might find this more interesting than people magazine. With a little polish and a bit more mature outlook, I think this story could have read much better if it was just a bit more sophisticated and it seemed to pander to the gum chewing set.

The main characters of these books are insufferable and I was listening, not even reading so it was less time consuming but I was so disgusted with the main characters foolishness that I could hardly wade through. I have a hard time just stopping in the mid book because I feel like a quitter, I say to myself maybe it will get better but it never got better.

I have not idea how this book got such good reviews and it is so cheesy and predictable, this series is so bad. I love a good chick lit book, but this is poorly written and just not good, try some other books for a better option.

I think the one thing the bugs the hell out of me is how stereotypical Landon is to what other people perceive Texans. I started out reading the book when I needed to do chores and figured I would listen to the audio book. I am afraid to imagine makeup of this author and the list can go on and on, overall, I did enjoy this book after I pushed aside the flaws.

If I were fifty years younger I would have enjoyed this book more and the young heroine displays admirable work ethic and ability. Yet the author has the character cry like a weakling at the slightest obstacle and take to her bed for an entire tear soaked week after the climactic scene in which she refuses to lie for her horrible boss. The author runs from her trouble and waits to be rescued, a happy ending comes only from friends confidence in her. The author is willing to give up until they drag her out of bed and read her the riot act. The author is naive, immature, sweet, plucky, clueless, charming, vulnerable and yet the author wants us to regard her as extraordinarily talented and I barely knew what to make of her most of the time.

So I really enjoyed the idea of this book, however, the story fell short for me for several reasons. First, it was overly descriptive and I would have loved to read one chapter where I did not know the details of what everyone in the room was wearing. I knew more about what the characters were wearing than the actual characters themselves. Secondly, we never know what happens to character and the book was left with cliffhangers. Third, the main character just irked my nerves and loved the supporting characters better. Overall, it was a cute story but I did skip several pages to get to the end.

I hated this book and the narration on the audio was terrible and this might be a good book for some people but it was not for me. I do not need to read about work drama and I do not enjoy it in real life. I do not need to read about it in my fiction and I did not find Landon or any of the other characters to be very likable.