#47. The Age of Light: A Novel
#Whitney Scharer
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Age-Light-Novel-Whitney-Scharer/product-reviews/0316524085/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I have read previous books that have included glimpses into Lee Miller life in Paris in the 1930 and I have read factual accounts about her life as a Vogue model, life with Man Ray, as a war correspondent. This book, while fiction, brought what I have read previously into one powerful story giving insight into this complex, talented and troubled woman. How much is fiction and how much is fact is unknown but the book is absorbing and a great read and I look forward to seeing what or who will be next from this author.

I loved this book and, as others have commented and it is beautifully written, but it is a written description of that work. I will certainly buy next book and I have read biography of Lee Miller and seen scores of Man Ray photos, many of which sprung into my mind as they were described in the book. I wonder if this familiarity with their work improved, or distracted from my experience in reading this book. The Wall Street Journal review that led me to this book featured the iconic photo of Lee in Hitler bathtub, a startling visual on many levels. Man Ray experimental work adequate to describe their places in the history of photographic art.

This is a wonderfully readable historical novel about the evolution of an amazing photographer, Lee Miller, through the crucible of Paris and Surrealism, and her relationship with Man Ray. Read this in conjunction with Antony Penrose and the Lives of Lee Miller should you need the pictures that go with the words.

A well balanced novel with sensitive portraits of both Man Ray and Lee Miller, but it makes a very clear point about expropriation of other people work. It is written from Lee perspective which is a good view to Man Ray, Jean Cocteau and other luminaries who make their way through her life. Lee Miller was a renaissance woman and this eye opener of a book is right on time, easy read and most enjoyable.

I am not normally a fan of historical fiction but an avid fan of art. The story of Man Ray and Lee Miller is art in motion which takes you on a fantastical journey through time and emotion, highly recommended.

This book reminded me of the movie starring Daniel Day Lewis as an eccentric but gifted dressmaker to the elite whose quirks eventually derail the romantic relationship he has with his star. This book does not take as dark a turn as that film did, but it is still a perceptive look at how an artist and his muse who may also be artistic can wind up clashing both personally and professionally. Lee is an interesting character, a former abuse victim who is occasionally doubtful of her gifts. Although I sometimes found myself wishing the author had chosen to center her story when she was a war correspondent, it seemed like that would have been a far more intriguing narrative to mainly focus on.

Overall, I did quite like this book and here is a fantastic writer for four star review. The author writes in such a way that you want to read the novel slowly to soak in her turns of phrases. It made me want to be there and converse with these people. The author did a great job in taking two people that actually lived and writing fictional situations with them. I will definitely have to research more about Lee and Man lives to learn more about the real people.

I knew very little about Lee Miller before diving into this delightful debut novel. I was immediately drawn in, not just by the exquisite language and Scharer gift of storytelling, but also her ability to send you right into the mind of Miller. Scharer squeezes your heart, and inflames your senses with every move that Miller makes. It was only afterward when I wanted to know more about Man Ray and his enchanting lover that I found Scharer took a few liberties with Miller history, but all for the good of the story itself. I devoured this gorgeous book and all of the decadence of Paris in the 1930, the bohemian lifestyle of these artists and Miller complex transformation into a woman of her own that underlies it all. This book left me in tears on the last page and the impression of this novel is one I will carry with me for months and years forward.

I came to this book due to a fondness for the photographs of Lee Miller and her contemporaries and I knew that she was at the vanguard of changing gender roles. This is an engaging book and I certainly enjoyed it while I was reading it, but even when I was done, I found myself thinking back to the story, almost as if they were people I knew.

This novel transported me with its beautifully written settings and characters and it is thoroughly entertaining and I felt for the main characters. I loved how it was structured, jumping to different eras in Lee Miller life to create a full and deeply nuanced portrait. I just recommended this book to another friend again today, such a pleasure to read.