#48. Breakthrough
#Michael C. Grumley
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Breakthrough-Michael-C-Grumley-ebook/product-reviews/B00BVFM04C/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Good beach read and the writing is decent, but it is one of those thrillers with a lot of action and a bit light on details. I mean, you probably already noticed that it involves dolphins and aliens from other reviews, so you know what you are getting into. I read the series in about three days when I had a lot of downtime and needed something to occupy me and this was great. Probably will not recommend it to friends or read it a second time.

Very poorly written, the dialog is laughably bad and I am usually pretty forgiving about stuff like and the military stuff just did not ring true to me at all. Plus the text is filled with lots of bizarrely retrograde assumptions that just seem wildly out of place in a book written. For example, we are introduced at one point to a character of Italian descent and are immediately assured by the narrator that in spite of this the character probably does not have ties to the mafia. Later, two male characters board a naval vessel and they pass a female officer and are so obviously stunned by such a sight that the captain of the ship assures them that he has found women actually make good officers. Shortly after reading this passage I put the book down for good.

I like fiction grounded in science but the author allowed himself too much freedom so the story becomes unbelievable to the point that I did not care anymore. For example the dolphins were able to measure distance which makes no sense to me, next, Alison has suddenly feelings for Clay who to me is just a brainless daredevil. As if not enough, somehow a tsunami is unbelievably stopped with a simple counter tsunami and finally to finish it all off, all the good guys miraculously survive, the baddest guy disappears and of course we all have a good laugh about it.

If you agree with this quote from the book that the worst, over religious beliefs, which were nothing more than emotional ideas being systematically forced onto others, then this book is for you, enjoy. I did enjoy the concept of communication with dolphins and the other science fiction elements but the character were not as dimensional as I had hoped for a book with thousands of reviews.

There may be a good story buried in here but it was too hard to get by the gross technical errors and there were many more. November is late spring and the temperatures at the coast where the research station is are in the range of 20 to 30. How about a Tsunamis caused by a seismic disturbance in the Antarctic reaching the USA in hours, 9000 miles in a few hours.

I was just looking for an entertaining read and I have no science background, but the story was too disjointed and the characters one dimensional. Since I bought three books at once, I will continue to next book, but I assure you, I am not leaping enthusiastically.

This is a pretty good book, with some flaws and the first flaw is that, if you look at the cover, you can anticipate a lot of the story. The second is that the ending is fairy tale and everything works out, up until the ending, the book moved along well with events making sense as they unfolded. It is hard to write this section without putting in spoilers and the ending feels like the author ran out of time and a bunch of things happened quickly and some of what happened was never explained.

I simply can not believe the amount of good reviews on here. A plot line so fantastical to beggar belief, with minimal character development, unnecessary inaccuracies, events that simply would not happen. There are plot lines to see through that you know the ending halfway through.

Although I am pretty open minded, especially in the science fiction genre, yet he writing is elementary and story is uninspired, scattered and unfinished. Character development and dialogue more cliche than the most played action movie you have ever seen. This is clearly a mindless read money grab built to sell the sequels, one of the worst books I have read in a long time and I can not believe it has over four stars.

This was chosen by our book club and was pretty panned by all and I am a computer geek and just about any reference to technology caused me to wince. I kept on thinking that all the author needed was a better friend to vet the technology sequences but I am really not sure what would be left. AI does not work that way programs do not do thatI give up.