#49. The Ruins on Stone Hill (Heroes of Ravenford Book 1)
#F P Spirit
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Ruins-Stone-Hill-Heroes-Ravenford-ebook/product-reviews/B00L5JN5SE/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

You can tell that this author is a fan of fiction and he has compiled a cast of all the typical, cliche, characters one would find in a variety of fiction stories. The story was fun, but did not have a lot of meat to it and we learned a small bit about each character, but not enough to really care about them. The characters all had different talents which made them a good team, but things were way too easy, defeating all the enemies too easily with little risk of danger. There is no loss, so no growth and they do not learn any lessons from hardship. Saying all that, it was a fun read, and I would recommend it to anyone who wants something light to escape the trials of real life.

I so want to blurt out the details but that would spoil it. The ending is most satisfying and wraps up what needs to be wrapped but the author definitely dangles a carrot that leaves you wanting the next installment in the series. This book is unique and entertaining and it reminded me of years ago in my youth when I played.

In the interests of disclosure, I received a free copy of this book to review, however, I do so with pleasure and the book had everything that I look for and like in a well written fantasy. The book has magic, combat, a plot with pacing, a creative and well developed world, characters that are likable and grow over time with the story, good dialogue, and even a good dash of humor. Some of the reviews already mentioned the camaraderie of the young male heroes. I would also like to draw attention to the female warrior in their band and I like Titan and I believe many other readers will too. The author does a great job of going beyond the usual stereotypes you see in the fantasy genre to make unique and engaging characters. I also appreciated the healthy dose of sarcasm and I am already looking forward to reading the rest of the series.

Finally an exciting and well written Fantasy series, thank you, I really enjoyed this book and just bought the other two. I proof read for other authors, I love how your story flows and how you introduced characters and treasures along the way, it is a joy for your readers.

Anyone who enjoys epic fantasy should grab the first book in this series and I enjoyed meeting each of the Heroes and learning about their world. Several adventures are included in this first book but the action does not stop there, since they must learn who is behind all the problems facing Ravenford. Loved the the book and started reading the second already.

I have to say this is one of the most enjoyable books I have ever read. Great characters, excellent battles without all the explanation fluff. Good humor and differentiation of characters to make it work, all in all a very good read.

This book reminds me of the Lord of the Rings and it is a group of beings of different races who become mercenary since they battle using cunning and ingenuity. I think the book is well written and definitely held my attention to the end and the characters are strong with good dialogue. I found it descriptive so I fully understood the scenes that were taking place, if you like fantasy genre I believe you will like this book.

This book told a very fascinating story, but first, let me point out two factors in the story that I considered a kill joy. The first is the way the author constantly flashed back to explain why a character in the story could perform some action, which we were not previously told the character could perform. The second is the way the author used myriads of small details in the story, details that could have been left to the imagination of the reader, details that the reader should have been allowed to fill in. Now, these details did nothing but prolonged the length of the story, and made the story unnecessarily too long.

A group of mismatched friends go on a string of adventures together, along the way they build friendships and test their mettle against a number of evil creatures. They also improve in both skill and power, setting up the next volume nicely.

This is a fun little romp in the fantasy market and there is plenty of fun to go around. At first the characters seem to be rather one dimensional and boring, but the story is all about how the main characters become heroes and the excitement along the way. The story is suitable for adults and children and hope to read more of author work.