#51. Belonging: A German Reckons with History and Home
#Nora Krug
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Belonging-German-Reckons-History-Home/product-reviews/1476796629/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I am almost overwhelmed at the depth and intensity of this graphic memoir. Reading this book felt like peeking behind an unspoken curtain into some inkling of the thoughts. I was absolutely captivated both for the author and myself and I will share this digital advanced copy with my husband and hope to build the courage to share a copy with my father in law after publication.

This was a book I could not put down since the author takes us on a personal journey exploring her family history and how she reconciles what she discovers with the life she lives today. The artwork and design, for which the author is known, is complemented by a powerful and poignant writing style. As someone whose family history also descends from Germany, the entire narrative struck a chord. I recommend Belonging without any reservations.

I loved this book about the author reconnecting with her family history and mixed emotions about her German heritage, the only drawback was the text or copy divided in the middle by an image. I found this incredibly annoying or difficult to read, an absolute must read.

The Book was a Sobering Investigation by the Author search for Her Familial past. The path she takes us through is a journey through modern Germany and into the Darkest parts of the Third Reich.

This graphic memoir is a really deep and poignant look at one self. It is a really heavy topic, but I found it awesome to experience Nora journey of self discovery cool to be done in the graphic medium. I also loved that it was not a typical graphic novel and the book was drawn as if written in a notebook. There were even real photos put into it to make it feel more real. It is kind of hit you with the truth suddenly and I do want to post a warning though, some of the images early on were a little too much to handle. We are dealing with WWII in Nazi Germany, so there are some horrific images there, so just be mindful of that if that could be a trigger, or just something you would not want to see in a book.

I was intrigued by how the graphic novel format would convey the information, and I was suitably impressed. I have been reading books on drawing techniques and artistic journalism and this book was a feast for the eyes. The author is a skilled artist and I felt as if I was reading someone personal accounts in their journal, illustrated with all the care you see in adept bullet journal aficionados. Let that comparison not take away Nora Krug skill, the author is talented, and I also follow some artists, so the connection is meant to be a fine compliment. The use of photos, sketches, dried flowers, even images of medals and wood carvings, make this a rich tribute.

This was such a stunning book for me and stunning in that it affected me in a way I did not expect. I have read lots of books about WWII, non fiction, fiction, children books, even a couple graphic novels or memoirs. Despite all that though, I had never given much thought to how that time period affects modern Germans. When I thought of post war Germany at all it was mostly in relation to the Berlin Wall.

There are books I lend out and books I do not care if they get returned to me. This is a book I want to lend out because I want to share in the deep pleasure I experienced with the book, but it is also a book I want to make darn sure gets returned to me because this one is a keeper. The scrapbook presentation lends itself so much to the delivery of the narrative that I cannot imagine the book in any other format now. It is not so much what the book is about, but it is more about the delivery. Other books have covered a similar theme and the reader feels present and involved every step of the journey the author takes in exploring and discovering her family history.

This book is so powerful and emotional and eye opening and the author takes us with her on a journey to uncover the buried history of her homeland and her family. Th author watercolor illustrations, historical photographs, and found objects take it to another level, everyone should read this.

A lot of the finest modern German authors have described the feeling that the present is like a thin veneer over a terrible past, that any picking at that surface reveals old wounds festering beneath, that the beauty and sense of being safe or home can never be fully trusted, because they are also always filled with unspoken pain. The author shows all of this masterfully, taking us with her through the continuous waves of emotion that make up her exploration. In the end, there is no easy solution, no happy end, but we do get to witness conversation snippets that fill us with hope that the journey is worth it. The tears in her mother voice over the phone that signal that something long pushed down has opened and softened, a sense that along with the guilt. History also contains miraculous moments of forgiveness and loyalty, never a final resolution. But a hope that there is more than one story and that staying with the uncertainties, the complications, the pushing against the borderline between knowing and not knowing is worth it.