#53. Directorate S: The C.I.A. and America's Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan
#Steve Coll
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Directorate-C-I-Americas-Afghanistan-Pakistan/product-reviews/0143132504/ref=cm_cr_getr_d_paging_btm_next_3?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&pageNumber=3

Overall, it is not an easy read, but conversely it is virtually pointless to try to understand regional conflicts without a close read. Perhaps the strongest message is that no outsider can appreciate the complexities of ancient and modern tribal, ethnic, cultural, and religious rivalries, beyond a few with high security clearances and impeccable integrity.

This is a journalistic history, which means there is no overarching theme, no unifying element, just a series of characters and anecdotes, all strung together. About several pages you realize this is simply going to be a series of chronological episodes, but you keep reading because the subject matter itself, interesting as it invariably is. The reading experience provides enough fuel to get you to the end. There are few surprises, nothing a person moderately interested in this subject would not already know. The liberal internationalists believe that within all human beings on this good earth there is a liberal Canadian encased within, and it merely requires patience and chipping away at the rough exterior to reveal this person.

Major elements of the schizophrenic US Pakistan story are omitted or treated superficially. The argument lacks the perspective that would have benefited from a more balanced and comprehensive set of sources. Indeed, the narrative seems disjoint, sometimes reading like a fleshed out series of interview note cards, a plotless timeline rather than a coherent story. In trying to convict the Pakistan military, the author offers a collection of circumstantial evidence but fails to flesh out the motive. For example, he fails to piece together a credible picture of Pakistani national security strategy as context for its behavior. I also find the illustrations woefully lacking. Photos of erratic quality are included for only some key players. And the book desperately wants readable maps of key regions and countries.

This book is excellent and I am not sure how this book got written and I am sure parts of it was classified, everyone likes the story behind the scenes. This is that book about the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan and it will give you the inside story about what happened between the main characters. The book is told primarily from the opinion of the Department of State and the CIA and not the military. At the end of the book you get some snippets about the military part of the conflict.

This should be required reading for any politician, diplomat, and anyone thinking of getting into the sharp, dirty end of the game. The book is meticulously researched and thoroughly well written and it draws you from chapter to chapter easily. The disappointments, like all such books, come from the flawed machinations of governments, the poor decision making from a lack of understanding of history and culture, and the willful abuse of the efforts of those on the ground. No outside influence is ever going to help these countries and especially not if it is western influence. It is a supreme arrogance to think that we can force our will onto other cultures, religions, or tribes. Yet we continue to try, and complain mightily when things do not quite work out as someone, and some agenda, planned it. It is always someone else fault, forgetting that life has too many variables to possibly predetermine an outcome.

This excellent non fiction book reads like a novel and it is unbelievable on how it brings to life the politics and how incompetent we were in not seeing the Taliban rebuilt its hold on Afghanistan once it was defeated. Great book, if you want to understand how we got and continue to be engaged in the Middle East mess. I would recommend that one would get the Ghost Wars, Pulitzer Prize, book by the same author that addresses how we got into the Middle East conflict up to 911. That book makes up the lack of communications in our intelligence services, the politics of no action, and signs of upcoming attacks prior to 911.

Over the last several years, I have been intermittently reading books on Islam, mid Eastern history and politics. This book is among the best, providing an deep, exhaustive history of the Afghanistan war. American miscalculation, Pakistani power games, and Afghanistan melange of corrupt, competent and paranoid leaders are each shown in detail to each play a crucial role in the train wreck that has created America longest war. An essential book to any student, policy maker or interested citizen seeking a deeper understanding of the situation.

A wonderful and much needed follow up to Ghost Wars and as insightful to current events as Ghost Wars was and remains. With many of the names and players in these formative years of the Longest War still around and still ascending through the USA government ranks, it is important to recognize their histories of service or disservice.

This book seems to be excerpts of information previously written about in newspaper articles cobbled together with additional background information to create the book. That in depth information written from the perspective of an on scene observer may be uninteresting to readers who do not have the background or deep interest in the subject matter.

A bit long at times, but worth the effort and it is quite helpful to understand more about a set of issues crucial to the US and globe. It is not sweeping in that much of the larger forces that shape the region are eluded to but not fully laid out, India and Pakistan, then Russia and its engagements, the Middle East and all the history or complexity are all huge literature in their own right. The author does his usual terrific job of giving you enough to understand the larger context while diving into the details of his focus. I always enjoy his books and this is as good as the others, with this start, I will be reading a lot more.