#55. There There: A novel
#Tommy Orange
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/There-novel-Tommy-Orange/product-reviews/0525520376/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

When I first saw the title of this book, I read it as soothing words of comfort, but I had it totally wrong. Taking the famous Gertrude Stein quote that there is no there there, the author explains that this seeming indictment of Oakland, California as a featureless hole in the landscape is not what Stein meant. Further reading of the quote proves she found her hometown unrecognizable as the place of her memory. Late in the book, the broken promises, actual crimes and genocide are related metaphorically through a story written by one of the characters.

The purpose of this author is clear and he wants us to know that the term native cannot be easily defined and, in fact, encompasses many kinds of people who share the burden of alienation, isolation and cruel history. They come to the annual Big Oakland for different reasons and the messy, dangling strands of our lives got pulled into a braid, tied to the back of everything we have been doing all along to get us here. I have never read anything quite like this book, but it also defines all of us, as Americans, in many important ways.

I do not pretend to be part of that survival level experience that many people encounter, but I have touched it and its people and I have met it face to face. Orange brings it home in a way possible only for someone who has been there as I never have. It was a special experience for me to turn pages and find myself in so many locations I see and experience on a regular basis, however, even for those who never have been or or never will, there is a well worth the journey, and Tommy Orange is an author well worth meeting.

This book was what I needed, a look at multiple perspectives of native culture from a youth alive today. Finding the identity, being stuck, burdened, proud of it, the author breaks our journey up into a vignettes from a select coterie of characters yet in the end it feels like a single story. Not an easy move to pull, the author dance with time and he makes words dance. As a lapse writer, I saw him do small subtle nuance that told me he really knows what he is doing and is in control of every single shift in words. The author knows Oakland like a catholic knows the Our Father, and he puts it into his characters well. The author is an immense talent and he makes us suffer, makes us hurt, makes us try for that most desperate question that how did these peoples get flung so low, and who are they capable of being when they rise.

This is without doubt the best novel I have read in years and there is so much heartfelt emotion in each character. The novel was sad, thoughtful, richly emotional and tragic and the writing style was almost a stream of consciousness that put you inside the character and made you feel what they felt. I could not put this book down, and I did not want it to end and I highly recommend this book to all readers who want to experience something unique and amazing in literature.

The minute I got home, I bought There There and dove into the world he had captured and the people he created to bring that world to life and it is a phenomenal book. On top of a riveting story and characters that you invest in deeply, the story itself is so well constructed, so intimately and carefully layered, that when you get to the end, you know you have just experienced a true work of art.

This novel follows a pattern that I continue to deplore in well written novels with the cataclysmic ending. A recent example was My Absolute Darling. I love that Tommy Orange is an original voice, that the novel is populated with characters you want to know and understand, and that we are given a window into a community and culture that, at least for me, was out of sight. Even though we know from page one where things are going, I cannot say I was happy to arrive. I rank this book four stars on the quality of the writing and the strength of the author voice, but I am tired of blood soaked climaxes. There were also too many characters and a list would have helped.

A note on the prologue and a chapter called Interlude which are not fiction and the facts contained therein are horrifying and Orange writes about them in brutally blunt, beautiful language and the information was new to me, and shocking. I have read a number of history books that go into the horrors inflicted upon our indigenous peoples including Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee and a few by other author, and also a lot of fiction by natives. This author is a master of imagery and someone who can pack big ideas into short clauses, the two short nonfiction parts are very impactful and they add another dimension to understanding the author fictional characters. It is a very impressive first novel and I can not wait to read more by Tommy Orange.

These are characters who are distanced from their culture, but still feel it inside them and many of them, are biracial, openly wondering who and what they are. Cities, the places to which they were displaced, are the only homes they have ever known. These are not the stereotypical Native Americans that we typically see in books and movies. I just have not seen reflected in literature or film anything resembling the kind of Indian I am, the kind of Indian from the city, Orange said in an interview.

As I sat and read through this book in one day, I felt authentic emotions, deep seated reactions to the lives portrayed in words that were real to me. That made me feel the pride, the pain, the confusion, the sadness, the strength, and the fear that have nothing to do with my life. This book was a ride in the lives of people who are no longer foreign to me. I cannot express the depth and the light of this book sufficiently, and perhaps it is the lack of being there in my own life. But I am closer than I was before I read this book, and cannot recommend it strongly enough for you.