#57. Between the World and Me
#Ta-Nehisi Coates
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Between-World-Me-Ta-Nehisi-Coates/dp/0812993543/ref=lp_6960520011_1_4?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1556554890&sr=1-4

The author wrote a beautiful book, as a letter to his black son and it made me reflect on an incident that happened while I was a young mother. About forty years ago, I was teaching guitar in my home to a young black boy, who was about the same age as my son. One day, his mother was late picking up her son, so my son suggested that they would like to play together in our back yard. I thought that was a great idea, however, when the mother arrived, and found out that her son was not in the house, I will never forget the fear she expressed as she cried out oh no, he will be killed. We immediately went outside and called for them to come home and children were perfectly safe, as I thought they would be, but I will never forget the fear of that mother. As a mother, I could not imagine having to live with fear like that for the life of my son and I would recommend this book especially to anyone who questions the necessity of the black lives matter movement.

I purchased this book almost several months ago, but only got around to reading it today. I finished this book in one day and for context, this is the second book I read this week. The author is a great writer and I truly enjoyed reading his work and have an appreciation for his perspective. As a black immigrant, I do have to say that it is very disheartening for me to observe how African Americans are stuck in the past. I always wonder why the glass is always half empty, their lack of optimism, their hatred for all things white is so prevalent with black Americans. To me, the American dream is open to all who want it, you just have to carve out your niche, make sacrifices, and develop your emotional intelligence. The latter is key, to close, I will do something I am not supposed to do. Trevor is am immigrant, and as such you read his story, a very personal and heartbreaking story, yet as a black person you walk away hopeful, optimistic and with a can do attitude.

This was one of the most eye opening, touching, raw books I have read in a long time. The author takes the world he lives in and opens it up, dissecting it on the table for all of us to see and experience. This book is a letter to his son as a way of reaching out to him after yet another unarmed black man is killed while in custody. In doing so, the author offers an intimate, bare bones explanation into what it is like to be a black man in America, including the fear, the discrimination, the struggle, then with the language, there is the way of the author that this man can write. When I was not tearing up over some new truths I was being introduced to, I was tearing up over his beautiful writing.

The destroyers are merely men enforcing the whims of our country, correctly interpreting its heritage and legacy. It is hard to face this, but all our phrasing including the race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this and you must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body.

I am a retired professional and I try to be a good Christian and I try to treat others as I would be treated, not to judge and believe in the potential of all people given opportunity. I truly believe all persons are equal, and yet I am a Racist of being taught that separate can be equal, not out of any hatred, but out of ignorance, and as a product of my upbringing in the segregated South. I say this not with pride but with humility and awareness because I know that as hard as I may try I can not place myself in another reality or understand what it is to see the world through the eyes of another. This book has brought me much closer to that awareness and it is beautifully written and incite full It should be read by every thinking person.

The subject that matters here, however, is what is most important about between the World and Me. The author uses the experience of young African Americans and his own experiences growing up to create a poetic and impassioned letter to his son and, indeed to the world, about what it means to be a person of color in the United States at the beginning of the last century. My personal belief is that the issue of race and institutionalized racism is the most important issue we as a country face right now. For those who realize that they must be faced, no matter how painful we find them, the author provides a remarkable first step with this compelling, poetic, and sometimes heartbreaking expressionistic book.

The author captured the attention of the public with this his second memoir. He touched the theme of the perils of the black body in the USA, first as an inner city youth negotiating his way between the failings of the school and the violent demands of the street. Then the author finds his way free through the pages of The autobiography Of Malcolm, the environs of Howard university where his sense of safety is shattered.

This is a beautiful lamentation on the state of being black in America today and every father should read this book and the wisdom and fear of the father of the author is sure to resonate. The author is the intellectual offspring of Malcolm compared with countless other black writers who have expressed the black experience in the plainest terms, simply telling the truth that everyone knows. Facing this truth is facing our fears as a nation, so books like this must be read and considered honestly.

In the pages of this book are a hundred conversations that my parents have never had to have with me. The author writes to his son, candidly and honestly, about a truth that black men and women share, a truth hidden from white people by institutions, by willful ignorance, and by tradition. The author writes of how he has found his way in hopes that his son may find his own path. The messages here however are not meant only for his family but for many families who have hushed conversations with their youth regarding surviving encounters with police. The messages here also benefit the privilege which are open to them.

The book is so enlightening and I wish I could express my fears, frustrations, and thoughts on being black in America to my children the way this father expressed his. I totally think this is a read for a family of spiritually and and culturally open minded people who are willing to recognize that inequity is still alive and weighing on all black people in the world, but mainly here in America where there is ideally the hope of equality.