#59. Dog Days (Diary of a Wimpy Kid, Book 4)
#Jeff Kinney
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Dog-Days-Diary-Wimpy-Book/product-reviews/0810983915/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I was very excited when I got the package because my kids love this series and I wanted them to own the books instead of borrowing them. I loved the idea of gifting them a collectible boxed set to keep them neatly displayed and easy to find. Unfortunately I received ten books inside with an opened shrink wrap and no collectible box. I also noticed that the last book was different from what is pictured and it came with old school instead of do it yourself book. So keep these things in mind and You may not get the collectible box for the boxed set and you may not get the same books as you expect, disappointed.

I bought quite a few of these, because my grandson was enjoying some he had brought home from school. His mom has to limit the amount of time he spends reading them, as they change his behavior from good to not so good and I would not have bought them if I had known they would be causing a problem.

I will start off with what I did appreciate about the book and there were a lot more words than I had thought. I had thought it was more of a graphic novel, which my kids love, and less word narrative, instead I would describe it as word narrative that uses pictures to be less daunting. The font of the book is very pleasing to children with more attention issues and the plot is extremely relevant. That being said Greg, the main sixth grader, is an extremely unpleasant character and he is trying to fit into a new middle school but the kid is mean to his own friends. There is more grown in the side characters than in the main character, then at the end of the book when he should be taking some responsibility he does not. And the author makes one nice gesture, is not all that gracious about even making that gesture, and then blames his friend for being gone so long when he was a jerk to him.

This book can be split into two sections and the first fifty pages cover the early early childhood and then the rest of the book is about school, girls, and a dance. Heffley has been increasingly more interested in girls as the series progresses, but he often quits his pursuit early. The Third Wheel shows Greg as more focused and eager in his attempts and Greg is even a bit more considerate of others although he still does things that also yield personal benefit. The first portion was kind of funny but I did not care for story line and the second half was better and more cohesive but not as humorous. I hate to critique these books and I really do like them but personally this one falls flat in many areas in contrast to the previous books.

This is one of the most disrespectful, cynical, negative book series I have ever read and I previewed the series before handing it off to my child. I do not get what positive messages for kids can be gleaned from this series. There is not a nice word about anyone, including his family, in the series, and I have read three of the books now, to see if it changes. Rather than encouraging negative, baseless and superficial rumination, the answer to low esteem is not to humor and belittle others.

Some material of Jeff Kinney has been astoundingly good, and inspiring to people of all ages, frankly, that is what we all need more of. I would say this latest book in the Wimpy Kid series lacks the maturity that others display. Young people are endlessly fascinating, and face seemingly endless challenges as they develop in this complex and intense twenty first century world, so I am sure Kinney will continue to find new themes, and I look forward to his returning to blue chip quality control in his next offering.

It was not fun to read and I could even feel the anticipation of my eight year old son dissipates as I read on, hoping that the next chapter would be a funny one. My thirteen year old son was not interested enough to finish it. If the previous books were a diary, then this one was merely a chronicled journal of a boy that could not get a date no matter what he tried and it was as boring as that just sounded. The author just really lost touch with what made the other books worth while the ability to relate to kids of almost any age. Gone is the sibling rivalry and interactions of the older and younger brothers that made it interesting for the different age groups.

I bought this for my seven year old son because it was recommended by practically everyone we know and it was not a big hit in our house. My son did not enjoy the book because he had a hard time relating to the main character. He did not connect with all the stuff in the book about school and there is a lot. The main character did not impress me because he seemed to be a complainer. I am glad my son did not like this book because I do not want him thinking he should be like the main character and we will not be purchasing any of the other books in this series.

The book set is good to read and easy to follow, but according to a certain nine year old, the book is not one that makes you want to turn pages and keep on reading and searching for what will happen next. This book is interesting because it is something that really happens and can happen to some children so that makes it more fun to read. Overall, even though the entire set did not get the highest mark, this Diary of a Wimpy Kid set is still able to capture imagination and interests of young readers and those who are young at heart.

I bought the books for my seven year old nephew as a Christmas gift and he is a strong reader and asked for this series. We were on a budget, so we went the used route to buy these books for him. When we received the books in the mail, we noticed there was some scribbling on the cover but I did not look any closer because, he was at our house when they arrived, and I wanted to wrap them quickly. When he and his mom unwrapped the books, his mom noticed that aside from the scribble, there was a penis and poop drawn on the character. With further perusal, I discovered almost every page is drawn with this ongoing theme.