#61. The Boat People: A Novel
#Sharon Bala
#https://www.amazon.com/Boat-People-Novel-Sharon-Bala/product-reviews/0385542291/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Okay, one negative criticism, the book refers to the Japanese Canadian internment in WWII ending in 1945. In fact it was 1949 before all restrictions were ended for Japanese Canadians and they were allowed back to the west coast and it is surprising and disappointing that the author goofed on this. In general though I enjoyed this book and found it deals with an important subject, yet the main message I took is that Canadian reaction to refugees is variable and unpredictable. The adjudicators who make life and death decisions are often political appointees and who do not have appropriate training. It is all too easy for us to denigrate the abysmal government south of the border, but the fact is, all countries have done wrong things.

This book highlights important issues that contemporary individuals and governments face. Balancing humanitarian perspectives and national security often presents a choice that officials must make without having the complete background information essential to making that decision. Those who represent immigrants may waiver between their instincts to help and their desire to pursue more lucrative areas of law. The author develops her characters in a realistic manner and the growing frustration Mahindan feels as he awaits the decision of Grace and equally compelling is the personal development Priya displays as the plot moves through the narrative. Only Grace appears not to have altered her opinions and outlook with respect to those seeking asylum, however, her teenage daughters not only begin to understand the past of their grandmother and they seek to learn more.

It is the story of Mahindan that tugs at the heart and his wife Chithra died in childbirth. Mahindan and his son now have to prove themselves as people worth good standing in their new country, but Canada is beset with this sudden surge in illegal immigration in a time of increased terrorism. Mahindan and his son are sent to prison until his status as a civilian non combatant is proven and he has high hopes that Canada will let him and his son in with open arms, but he quickly learns otherwise. The life that Mahindan fled has followed him to Canada, and there are some bad people among the boat refugees and Mahindan wants to live the Canadian dream for himself and his son, but quickly learns that many Canadians see Tamil refugees as terrorists who need to be sent back. We see his daily struggles as his immigration status hangs in limbo, and we suffer with him when his fate unfolds.

Mahindan and his son arrive in Canada on a rickety cargo ship along with other desperate refugees from Sri Lanka escaping a civil war that has caused people to flee for their lives. The process of being allowed to immigrate into Canada is arduous, as the Canadians are determined to avoid allowing terrorists and violent rebels to stay. Mahindan is locked into a refugee prison, though his son is allowed to live with a foster family. The story moves back and forth in time to the life of Mahindan in this country. The strife that took the life of his wife and caused him to flee, and his depression and anger about his uncertain future. The papers of Mahindan have been lost, so he can not prove that he was not on the wrong side of the conflict. The lawyer of Mahindan, the judge and others in the legal system provide the counterpoint to the refugee crisis. The story is an illuminating and emotional exploration of the dangers and challenges faced by refugees and immigrants across the globe.

The author writes a historical fictional account with vividness and realness and she alternates in telling the story of Mahindan, his wife and son in Shri Lanka in the past to a time later on when Mahindan and his son were on a boat built to carry three hundred people but packed with more. This book bring the Civil War in Sri Lanka down to individuals and helps very much in understanding what happened and what the issues are. This book also makes more more personal and encourages me to read more about this event and the current situation today.

I had no idea that our northern neighbors were struggling with the same issues that overt political nationalism, fears of terrorism, segregated prisons for unwanted refugees, deliberately obtuse bureaucracies designed to slow down even the most fervent claims for asylum. There are three basic plots lines, involving a widowed young Tamil man and his six year old son who survived the trip to Vancouver on an unauthorized ship. The first is a Canadian female law intern also of Tamil descent who reluctantly is swept up into immigration defense cases. The second is a bureaucratic Asian female who willingly and the third is a nationalistic politician into the adjudication of these difficult asylum cases with no legal background and some difficult issues in her own family. The three stories intersect and intertwine, at times there are almost too many characters and too much time jumping but it gets easier to keep everyone straight as things progress.

The Boat People tells the story of a large group of refugees who arrive Canada from war ravaged Sri Lanka with hopes of a better life, however, their dream is interrupted because instead of acceptance, the Canadian government is riddled with suspicions of terrorism. The story is told from the perspectives of refugee Mahindan, his second gen, Sri Lankan Canadian lawyer, Priya and a Japanese Canadian adjudicator, Grace. This book is akin to the Half of a Yellow Sun in that it feels like homage to Sri Lanka and all the Tamil refugees. Her writing is in turns visceral, nostalgic and filled with wry humor and the book provides ample opportunity to empathize with individuals from war torn parts of the world. It begs for a more compassionate treatment of refugees, with well formed, nuanced characters and obviously properly researched material.

A wonderfully written thoughtful book that gives insight not only into a refugee crisis but also to the people who must deal with the challenges once those refugees reach, in this case, Canada. This is especially interesting because it focuses on Sri Lanka and the Tamil Tigers, a country and a movement which have received less attention in the US than in Canada. Mahindan seeks nothing more than hope and a new life for himself and his son but finds himself in a system that is not listening. Priya, his attorney, brings her own Sri Lankan background to the table, a background she has tried to suppress and resents. Grace, the adjudicator, who is a third generation Japanese Canadian, also has a point of view. The story is told by all three and it is not a happy situation and there are no easy answers. Thanks to the author, this is well worth reading, especially for those in the US to get a different perspective on immigration.

I taught English to refugees and immigrants to the US for over twenty five years, allowing me to be a part of many people arrival and trauma of adjustment after years of war, languishing in refugee camps with appalling conditions, and decades of displacement. Canada has been ahead of curriculum development, best teaching practices and support for refugees for many years. The author captures so many of the issues we are confronting today, including the receiving the fears of population, often unfounded, especially compared to what the refugees have endured escaping certain death. I thought the ending of the novel was brilliant, a clear view of the uncertainty of many futures.

Especially now, this is a timely novel following the perilous journey of Mahindan, and his six year old son, among hundreds of fellow refugees from war ravaged Sri Lanka, to Vancouver, Canada. Instead of starting a new life there, the characters are taken to a processing center, where interrogation by various government agencies commences as there is concern that some of these refugees are terrorists belonging to a militant separatist organization and thus pose a threat to Canadian security. The novel is compelling as a desperate act by Mahindan in Sri Lanka in an effort to pay for his journey might impede his asylum chance.