#63. American War: A novel
#Omar El Akkad
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/American-War-Omar-El-Akkad/product-reviews/0451493583/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

I enjoyed this book to a point and it is a good story, and it is written well, but for some reason I got bored with it several times in the last half of the book and I think it is because during each phase of the life of Sarat. The author dwelled too long and the story slowed down and it was a bore. I guess in sum the book was too long for the story, regardless, it is pretty good and It is not a disaster.

Because of what is going on politically in our country right now I truly believe we are right now on the brink of another Civil War. I feel that this book did not come even close to developing a story which would make this believable and I agree with others that the author is a good writer, but spent way too much time developing the main character Sarat while leaving a broader more interesting story unattended. I also found myself quite bored throughout the book and was not able to read another word once I got to chapter fourteen. Do not waste your time and money on this book unless you have read everything else out there that covers the coming of the next civil war in the USA. The direction this country is now headed leads me to believe that the next book written on the subject may be nonfiction.

An interesting premise where in the near future, climate change has wreaked havoc on the world. The political friction surrounding this has resulted in the second American civil war. The novel takes you through the aftermath from the point of view of rebel characters from the southern states. I liked the idea of this novel, but I did not care for any of the characters or points of view and it is a pretty grim story that is thought provoking in some ways but also not particularly enjoyable to read.

American War had the opportunity to be a great book, however, the plot fell flatter than the fifteenth century world. Given the fractured nature of modern America there was ample opportunity to tell a story about a future civil war based on current fissures in our society. Additionally, I struggled to believe the story of a united Middle East becoming a dominant Superpower in world affairs. At times the writing was enjoyable, but the incredulity of the plot left me truly regretting time spent reading this book, alas, being in a book club can sometimes compel you to finish a book you otherwise would not.

I really wanted to like this book, but I could not and it was like watching a slow motion train wreck, terrible things happening in the most boring way possible. On the positive, this is well written and thought out, on the negative, I had difficulty reading for more than a half hour or so, not because it was emotionally draining, but because I just could not care. Just prior to reading this I read a trashy post apocalyptic series that was much less literate or well written than this and I will likely go back and read those books again, not so much this one.

Honestly, I had to force myself to finish it and when I first hear about this book, I was excited to read it. I loved the concept of a second civil war and this book simply does not deliver and it has no sympathetic characters. The plot is flat and contrived and the author seems to have little notion of American history, if I could give this less than a one star, do not waste your money.

This novel creates a compelling portrait of life during wartime but a less convincing back story for a future American war. The war is based on laws forbidding use of gas powered cars due to climate change, leading some states to secede. It strikes me as unrealistic that such a law would lead to war, especially when the effects of climate change are so apparent in this dystopian future. Also, it is a dystopia based on very little, just climate change and our continuing political divide, so if you are looking for a dystopia that feels possible and complete, look elsewhere. In contrast, the war experiences of the characters feel quite real and believable and the author has apparently seen the effects of war on civilians up close and it shows. The whole dystopian setting is just an attempt to make an American audience find these experiences more relatable and it would have been a better novel if set in a currently war torn country.

A fascinating premise is hampered by some frustrating narrative decisions and the author seems to employ an extra omniscient god eye view which seems implausible. The novel gets points for world building and I appreciated the vision of an America in the 2080, complete with dangerously receded coastlines and a populace divided even more so than we already are. But to me, this book read like a first draft as if the publishers saw an opportunity to sell a dystopian American book to an increasingly dystopian America. But, considering it is only going to get worse from here, I imagine this book would sell just as well, if not better, had it the chance to develop more during a few more months of editing. I did enjoy the book, but I nevertheless walked away feeling a tad disappointed by what could have been.

I had really high expectations for this book and was kind of let down by it and it was a good novel but I went into it expecting so much more. The main character was kind of unlikable and I found myself rooting for her at times but a lot of the time I just did not like her and she was a strong female character which was nice. I kind of predicted the ending but I am pretty sure that the author wanted the readers to predict it and I think that is why the book was written the way it was and there was foreshadowing. The book was devastating and I expected that and if you are not into books that deals with sadness and grief then this book probably is not for you.

This book is well written yet it lacks any substantial point and it is an example of the current trend in writing to develop intricate characters and ignore the back story. The reason why the Hunger Games does not develop the back story of the political system and upheaval that created, it is not because the author was trying to craft edgy dystopian fiction. The author did it because the story is young adult fiction about girl meeting boy and using him unmercifully the setting does not need a lot of backstory, unfortunately, the second American Civil War does. This book takes an interesting dystopian premise and just wastes it and tell me why the second civil war happened. Give me the background to care about the main character and it is like telling the history of Disney from the point of view of the guy that does the catering for the craft table.