#65. The Great Alone: A Novel
#Kristin Hannah
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Great-Alone-Novel-Kristin-Hannah/product-reviews/0312577230/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

So depressing that Per the usual, Kristin Hannah has created layered, fleshy characters and an engrossing story, but you really need to be in a good place emotionally to read this one. While many of her books are bittersweet and run the gamut of the emotions of life, this one is pretty bleak cover to cover. If all is stable and calm in your world and you read it from a place of peace and emotional homeostasis, or you need a catalyst for a bawl fest, go for it. It is certainly an engrossing read and very well written, but if you have a lot on your plate, or more than a bit of emotional stress in your life at the moment, steer clear. Perhaps the fact that it has had such a strong effect on my state of mind is a testament to the storytelling abilities of the author, but I would unread this, at least for the moment, if I could. I am so exhausted and bummed out from reading this and I am having a hard time getting out of the plot this weekend. Additionally, there are a couple of areas where the plot line is a real stretch, but I think it is so well written overall that those things can be overlooked, still a very good book, but good grief.

Rarely in my fifty years of reading have I come across a story that enfolds me into its pages and the character takes us on a journey where we do not always want to follow. Her story is raw and honest, told through the innocence of a girl coming of age in the tumultuous sixties. Her description of Alaska is like watching a documentary about the state where we are swept from the water up to the glaciers and see a great panoramic of the wild and pristine state. The protagonist herself comes alive as a character here, just as detailed and meaningful as any other and I grew to love the inhabitants as if I had lived there myself. The story flows in an often unpredictable way and leaves the reader wanting more and I am so glad I read this book and I can not wait to recommend it to others.

I have read many of Kristin Hannah books so was anxious for this one and it was not my favorite but it was good. I learned a lot about Alaska however the first half of the book I found repetitive about Alaska, very descriptive which I like, but maybe fifty pages or so too much description. The second half of the book was fantastic and a lot happened in this story, specifically, characters were well defined, the plot was twisting, sad and happy and also horrifying at times. There was a happy ending which made it worth the read and thinking back on it, I really did enjoy it and I do recommend this book since the author is a great writer.

This is a spectacular epic, a love for Alaska shines through the twisting, turning story of a small family who love and hurt each other and we see the horror of war in it is after effects and the glimpse of life in the 1970. Our heroine is a child who moves so often she never fits in and her father is left property in Alaska by his army friend who did not make it back. When the story moves to Alaska everything comes vividly alive, the scenery, the characters and the story. It was everything including beauty, tragedy, love and redemption, riveting, horrifying and absolutely wonderful and I highly recommend this soon to be classic.

I have loved every single book the author has ever written, and I loved this book as well and her characterization of both people and place are compelling and brutally real, as always, and she is never afraid to shine a light on tough subjects. However, as much as I felt for the characters, this is the first book of hers in so long that has not made me cry. I knew the Nightingale would be a tough book to follow, and all the pieces were there, but they just did not add up to the epic tale the setting deserved, and I am not exactly sure why.

The descriptions of life in Alaska will stay with me for the rest of my life and I just can not abide mud, darkness, moldy mattresses, mildew, feces, and extreme cold, especially, nine months of the year. The idiot mother who stayed with and subjected her darling daughter to the tyrant husband or father needed a good slap upside the head by Large Marge. I could not put this book down until Leni found a clean bed, clean sheets, new clothes, a warm room, a hot bath, money, and some privacy. These did not come until much too late in her story, but by then, of course I had to stick with it to see how it and if those things made her happy. Not my genre by a long shot, but I read it in one day and I was captivated and do not look for me visiting Alaska.

I love getting lost in a book that transports me to a different time and place, a different life and does it with authenticity. I felt the setting in Alaska was authentic and a true representation and the writing is very picturesque and describes homesteading in a way to make me really understand how hard it was back in the seventies. The descriptions of the ocean, bays, river, sea life, salmon fishing, hunting, severe winter, mountains, northern lights, rain, mud, snow, dark days of winter, daylight in summer was all pretty amazing and the story line is also good which has been described enough in other reviews, people in town. This is really a good story, several surprising twists and local characters, not depressing at all yet the cover is a little strange with the almost freeway looking stream lights but do not let that sway you.

I heard this book will be a movie, and for that, I am happy and this coming of age story took place during my growing years, and it was good to read about an issue that did not get fully recognized until pretty recently. The author always writes well and develops the characters pretty well and I can not say I understand why a woman would stay in a relationship where she was physically abused and also was constantly subjecting her child to the dangers of domestic abuse. The author neglected to fully explain why a beautiful woman would stay with someone who backhanded and hurt her her on a regular basis. Passion alone would not do it, as I am of the opinion that passion is a fleeting and fickle state, and it would take much more than that to keep a woman coming back for more. The author needed to give a lot more explanation of why Cora had such a low self esteem as to put up with a man like her husband, because at that point in time, the effects were not fully understood and accepted. I guess it was supposed to be more about the story, but the relationship between her parents was such a big part of it that I think it should have been better explained. The story really held my attention despite these flaws, and I read it it one day, so that is why I am giving it five stars.

I am not familiar with this author and in fact, when the Amazon genies recommended this to me, I was of two minds purchasing this book because though it had high ratings, all the reviews went on and on about how sad this book is and how much of a good space mentally you needed to be. So, it was the sort of thing where I was not sure if I wanted to be depressed for the sake of fiction, however, I am glad I took a gamble and got this book. Yes, it is true this was not a book a jokes and riddles, and I do not recall laughing even once throughout reading this. But the enduring emotion I get from this book is not sadness, it is survival through difficulty, imperfect yet enduring love, strength that you do not know you have within you till it is time to show it. I am someone very easily affected by sadness in fiction, in that it can trigger depressive moods and so, it is not something I tend to actively seek out. That said, this was not grief for the sake of grief, or a tale of sadness that you feel is being dumped on you. The storytelling is so impeccable that you feel the anxiety of the characters and go on the journey with them all the way to the end. There is a definite trigger warning in this for domestic violence and grief, therefore, because you are going to feel like a part of this novel and it is wonderfully well written and I loved everything about this book.

This book is amazing and is so compelling there are parts that are painful to read but keep reading and this is the story of a dysfunctional family torn apart by domestic violence that is born in the aftermath of the time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. The author came home to his wife and daughter, a fractured man and this is a love story. The love of a wife, Cora, for her tortured husband, a love so strong that it blinds her ability to see what their troubled relationship is doing to their daughter. The love of a daughter, for her mother, a love so strong that it withstands the violence Leni sees at the hands of her father to her mother. This is a love story with natural beauty and the beauty of the independent people in their seventies. Everyone here is either running from something or to something and I have been involved in the criminal justice business for thirty five years. Never have I read such an honest portrayal of a fictional family in the throes of domestic violence. Kristen Hannah has done a masterful job at making such a tough topic readable and still teaching the reader of the tsunami effect that domestic violence has on everyone it touches.