#70. The Fifth Season (The Broken Earth)
#N. K. Jemisin
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Fifth-Season-Broken-Earth/product-reviews/0316229296/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Very little payoff for having to put up with the massive amount of horrible people doing horrible things. I can see the analogies to slavery, but that is not what I was looking for in a science fiction or fantasy book. The plot was not sufficiently interesting, more of a slice of life style than any real conflict, climax, resolution, to make me want to wade through the child rape or violence, and the writing style was confusing and never came together for me. The twist of how the different story arcs would come together was predictable and tiresome that it took so long to materialize. I will not read any of her other books and I am mystified how this won a Hugo.

Have you ever been looking for a movie to watch and you go to a rating website and see one that was highly rated by the critics and given a rating by the audience and that was this book for me. I thought it was average at best and the book started brutally slowly. Fifty pages in, I was ready to dump it but I kept telling myself that this was a Hugo award winner, it had to get better. I will admit, the world that the author was building was layered, complex, and intriguing and the writing style was certainly different but the book struck me like a play that had gorgeously painted scenery and amateur actors. And then the killer was the ending that was nor and this is not a complete story. It is a cliffhanger for the books to follow and given the pace of the first book, I am guessing that there will not be a real story until the third book. I am not willing to commit the time to the second book just to find out I need to wait until the third before any mysteries are unraveled. This was my first and will be my last book by this author.

I know this book received high praise on so many levels, and I am certain that it is deserving of the award and recognition it got. I am a voracious reader who saw great potential in this book, but I could not get passed the prose that left me wondering what the heck I was reading after the first chapter. I will take the blame and maybe I am not clever enough or something. But a book that leaves me scratching my head more than it pulls me in is one I am not going to spend previous hours on, regardless of the endless praise it got.

I liked this book and I have a hard time with authors who make up words for the sake of making them up and it is like they are trying too hard to develop a world and the stories of the three narrators jumps around quite a bit as well. We find out she is pregnant, and the next thing and it is two years later and she jumps forward quite a bit for two of the narrators, but not so much with the third. The story gets bogged down with her crazy words and technical speak and I really wanted to like it and I am usually a fan of post apocolyptic fantasies, but this one just did not work.

It is hard to know who is more responsible for the bad writing here, including the writer, who has no style whatsoever, and who seems to often be making stuff up as she goes along, with no planning, or the editors, who allowed terrible first draft level prose get all the way into print. I do not read a lot of science fiction, so I do not know what passes for Hugo worthy fiction out there, but if this is it, the genre must be in terrible shape. I tried to give this a chance because the story world is inventive, but a compelling story world is only one part of successful fiction, and this novel fails at almost every other part, plotting, character, theme, style. The author badly needs to tether her strong imagination to some sturdy craft.

The storytelling device to identify reader as the main character at one point and telling the story in second person was brilliant and I had not encountered that before. I disliked a few aspects and the language was quite terse and not particularly eloquent, yet it took many pages to tell the story. Splitting of the chronological sections felt artificial, engaging and entertaining at first, but disappointing when the stories converged. Some bits of the story felt a bit naive, surely, other orogenes and guardians with their extrasensory abilities would not be fooled by change of clothes of Bienof. Island life being idyllic felt a bit overdone and Rage at Jija for murder of Uche seemed less believable once what happened to Conu was described. The moments of describing something that causes confusion, only to be followed by oh right and no actual explanation were annoying and it is still confusing. Obelisks and stone eaters need more fleshing out obviously, but that is probably set up for the next books.

I am always hoping and praying to find a new author who is great, anyway, always looking, like that book Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter, or the book, The President Vampire, the list is a bit short when I think about it but anyway, always looking. When I saw that this book and its sequels won, year after year, those big science fiction awards, I was just psyched to try them. And then, not really good at all, she uses a lot of out of vocabulary, but that does not make it good. Bottom line, it was not good at all, had to stop reading it, it was so bad, instead I reread The Border of Robert McCammon and that was good and a page turner and it is so hard to find good authors anymore.

The book starts off with a bizarre narrative speaking directly to the reader, breaking the fourth wall instantly, but still managing to be utterly confusing. It took my friends and brother prodding me to keep reading to get past that and the next chapter is about a vaguely interesting character, but the narrative is now in the second person. There is a reason that the narrative of the second person narrative is pretty much never used in novels and it is very jarring and hard to read and I kept trucking along, hoping to find that it gets as good as they say it does and I gave up at about fifteen percent of the way. There is two other main characters, and they are written in a more normal the third person perspective. That is good, and these chapters are better, but it makes it all the more jarring and hard to read when it switches back to the second person. Apparently there is a great story somewhere in here and I guess I will not get to experience it and the writing style just is not for me.

This series could have been excellent and the story is a good one, however, the gimmicky structure of the series, especially the first volume makes it a confusing and frustrating read. The epileptic jumping of the author around in the timeline of the story without explanation of the jump makes for a lot head scratching. Another silly gimmick is the frequent name changes of the primary character. The attempt at making the reader assume the role of the protagonist is also frustrating. It adds nothing to the story or the experience of the story and the book is an effective commentary on many contemporary issues, especially racism and environmentalism. The explications of geology of the author and plate tectonics reveals excellent research and preparation for writing the trilogy, be warned that you will have to read it twice if you want to understand it.

As with a number of others, my feelings on the book are mixed and I really liked the overall concept and plot, but really did not like the story telling approach of jumbled time periods with little guidance for the orientation of the reader. I was also frustrated at what felt like behavior that did not seem to fit a particular character. For example, why would the most irrational, impetuous, childish and wreckless behaviour consistently come from characters that supposedly were conditioned for maximum stability and control at a young age. Overall, despite really liking the concepts, I disliked reading this book enough that I am just not interested in what happens next, and I will not be reading the next in the series.