#71. Grey: Fifty Shades of Grey as Told by Christian (Fifty Shades of Grey Series)
#E L James
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Grey-Fifty-Shades-Told-Christian/product-reviews/1101946342/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I only recently read fifty shades, and then read this and had to reread fifty shades to look at the two books together and I have not seen the movie. While this book does not give much new material to the plot of fifty shades, it does provide insight into the mental state and the development of Christian Grey, letting the reader see what is happening in his mind. Insight into the thought of Christian processes puts a different light on the overall story and I found it provided a fascinating view of his thinking, explaining his behaviors and his insecurities. While some will find it is not interesting because it is not a continuation of the story, others who want a glimpse into the development of Christian as much as Anastasia does will find it worth reading.

Just like everyone else I was super surprised to be getting the point of view of Christian and I was saddened by what seemed to be a literary hits against the book as well as the author. I did read a lot of the reviews, good and the bad ones and I wanted to go into this read knowing as much as possible. Now that may sound silly since if you read this book which is the point of view of Ana, you know what is going to happen but seeing life through Christian eyes really allows you to understand him and his baggage. Surprisingly, Christians life is for the most part on point and boring and he has his way and he never strays, never had any reason to. Essentially he is living in the dark, while he was able to pull himself out of his trauma. When he was younger, he really was going through the motions. It was not until his encounter with Ana that he was able to see specks of light. She really did turn is world upside down. You do get a little more detail from his dreams what he went through as a child and you get a tad more insight to his relationship with Robinson. While in this book at first I did not like the author too much because she did bring some form of emotion to Christian, when you see it from his point of view and a scene he recalls with her in their early years, I really understood better why Ana felt the way she did towards her from the beginning. Now keep in mind this is the first book in this series, so you can not fast forward all your trilogy knowledge in this read. I very much enjoyed the time in between the belt incident, her leaving and just before they meet up to attend gallery event of Jose. I am very, very much looking forward to FSDarker and FSFreed in as they were my favorites of this story. Thank you EL James for giving us more insight into the mind of Christian Grey.

Totally loved this and I listened to the audio book of Grey, and the narrator is perfect for Christian Grey. He has a wonderful tone to his voice, and he really drew you into the story. I definitely recommend listening if you have the opportunity and I love the whole Fifty Shades series, so I knew I would most likely love this. I am so excited for the next book in point of view of Christian and I have already got the audio ordered and I loved getting a look into the thought process of Christian, and I loved the extra scenes, especially the scenes towards the end. The only thing I did not like is stupid Robinson, she is a total hag, and anytime Christian mentioned her, I just wanted to shake him, so he would not be so blind to her. I just kept imaging Ana throwing wine in her face, so that made me feel better and I also cringed when Christian would think back on some of his past submissive, but the rest was amazing, loved it, definitely need the next one now.

The first Fifty Shades from Grey perspective gives depth and color to a deeply scarred and flawed character that makes him more easily understood as the emotionally frozen teen within the adult, sexually and physically abused but totally enamored and in love with Anastasia from the first. It is refreshing, funny and moving by turns to see his growth, and especially how he handles when Ana walks out and his subsequent discussion with Flynn. How it opens his eyes to his ability to do more, be more for Ana. It was refreshing and moving to see a deeply, emotionally flawed character grow and fall in love. The strength of character of Ana grows and changes him for the better. She may have been inexperienced, but her strength of character grows and highlights how these two move toward each other in a moving dance as they fall in love.

This writer is a big fan of the Fifty Shades of Grey series. I was instantly excited when I heard that there was going to be another book in the series. In my opinion, this book did not disappoint. Christian Grey is a complex man. He is a self made Billionaire who was born in abject poverty. He is a man who exercised control in all things, but begins to give up those rules and controls when he meets Anastasia Steele. I personally like this book better than Fifty Shades of Grey. Although the story is overall the same, the perspective of Christian is very interesting. It becomes clear all the changes that he tries to make to keep Anastasia in his life. It also gives insight into how a child that was so horribly neglected and abused, would try to make stringent rules and always be in control in order to protect himself. I found this book very enjoyable and I sincerely hope that there will be more books in the series. Hopefully a book that starts up where Fifty Shades Freed ended someday.

I just want to say that this whole series is one of my very favorite. I love the love story, the sad parts, funny parts and I just love it all, however it needs to be said that the movie sucks and it completely sucks. My cousin and I have been going to every movie and after the other two, where I found myself wanting to either stand up and scream, and you are doing wrong. Or hind in fear of being recognized because I was sitting in a theater watching a flipping porno because that is basically what it is. I am sorry but she is no Anna and he sure is no Christian. I am sorry, I find myself wanting to grab James, shake her and ask why did you let them do this to your amazing story. Now I can not even read this without picturing the actors and I actually feel sick. To be honest, the only reason I am even going to see part three is because I promised my cousin. God I hope it is better, so my advice, read the books but never watch the movie, ever.

I took forever to finally read this book because I knew a part of me would be sad to finish it. This is the book that put life back into my reading world and Christian was, well, I do not have the words. He is still one of my favorite book boyfriends, I just love him, so I have spent over a week reading this book. I could have finished it in one sitting but I wanted to savor it and cherish getting to be inside the head of Christian. Of course, I have seen the many negative reviews and to each their own, for me, Christian is just someone who gets into my head. I personally really enjoyed being in his head, it was sometimes a little more intense being on his side of things, and I loved that. So now I am done and I will have to put this to the shelf for a while that is until I want to read it again.

I resisted its seductive pull due to the fullness of my Kindle and I finally gave in to my burning desire due to a credit from Amazon and I was not disappointed. It answered so many questions about my beloved Christian Grey and I loved every minute of it. Even sweat and drooled during wet dream of Christian and My love is reignited and went and looked up the next movie. Fifty Shades Darker movie comes out 2017 Valentine Day and Kim Bassinger plays Elena or Robinson and I am not really even ashamed of myself. My love for Christian Grey is up there with my passion for chocolate, not to be measured or judged, just savored and I am not dead yet. Christian Grey makes me lustful and glad to be alive and also glad to have my husband of twenty nine years to burn all my carnality with. My husband is not offended and took me to the first movie on opening night and waited in line. He just enjoys the after effects and I am so proud that I do not have to pretend to be above such pleasures in my life unlike some other reviewers.

I had wondered what went through Christian Grey mind after he met Anastasia Steele and the short bit at the end of Fifty Shades Freed was a tease for me and I wanted more. I thoroughly enjoyed this read from the point of view of Christian. My worries that it was a complete rehash were unwarranted as there was plenty of new material from the times that Christian was not with Ana. Readers get a glimpse into Christian other relationships and I know there are people who feel that this series romanticizes abuse and rape, but I do not see it like that. This book especially for me shows how meeting Ana affects Christian and he has thrown into a tailspin as he tries to establish a relationship with Ana, the only way he knows how and begins to feel things he has not felt in many years, which frightens him.

As a conclusion, I do not understand all of the negative reviews. If you read the FSOG trilogy, you should have been well aware of what this book was going to be. And this book should stand on its own, but clearly it will not be judged that way, so with that in mind I do my review. The basic difference I found between FSOG and Grey was the writing, incredibly improved from the first trilogy. The author has come a long way and I greatly appreciate it. This book was an easy, fast, fun read and it was not overly repetitive, full of grammatical errors or one that made you want to throw a thesaurus at the writer and I enjoyed it and I took it for what it was. Which leads me to all of the criticism about Grey, did you honesty think he was a well put together, stable, rock solid, well adjusted man with no issues. You did not think he could not be insecure, needy, fragile and full of self doubt. Did you not read FSOG, if you did, we were reading totally different versions. You are upset because your ideal book boyfriend is damaged and apparently more so than you thought. Get over it and it is fiction and if you really think about it, James has outdone herself with this books as to receive such visceral responses to the true character of Grey. I am looking forward to the next book and it can not get here soon enough as far as I am concerned.