#72. The Graveyard Book
#Neil Gaiman
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Graveyard-Book-Neil-Gaiman/product-reviews/0060530944/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Long the king of fantasy fiction for adults, Gaiman has turned his talented attention to younger audiences lately. In The Graveyard Book, he cements his greatness in fiction once and for all. Gaiman spins the tale of Nobody Owens, a child who escaped the mysterious murder of his birth family and is taken in by none other than the ghosts at the local graveyard. Under the watchful eye of his new, ghostly parents and an otherworldly guardian named Silas, tiny Bod as he comes to be known, makes the land within the graveyard his own. But as he grows, questions arise that why is not Bod allowed to leave the graveyard. Will the one human girl he met as a small child ever return to visit. Who is searching for this innocent boy, and why does Silas leave him, for weeks at a time, under the watchful eye of taciturn Miss Lupescu. Who or what lives deep within the bowels of darkest, most forbidding hillside at the edge of the graveyard. The complicated answers to all of this and much more Gaiman weaves together into a beautiful, terrifying blanket. And in so doing, he shows his readers that it is only the most porous and important of curtains that separates life and death, that magic still exists, and that love cannot be limited by any boundaries, no matter how impenetrable they may seem. Truly, a book for all ages, an instant classic.

This is the story of Nobody Owens and his guardians and friends in a graveyard. They became his protectors and family when he was a toddler and a Man Jack did away with his family, shortly before coming after him to do the same. He grows up among the long dead people and other supernatural beings and he is protected from the world, but soon his past and his future beckon him into the world of the living. His interactions with beings from both worlds are witty, humorous, moving, and at times nerve wracking or dangerous. Yet always, these qualities underscore deeper truths about the human. And not so human, condition. This is one of finest works of Neil Gaiman for grade school level kids and up including adults. He remains one of my favorite tellers of Other Worldly tales, highly recommended.

I was amazed at how dark this book was, considering it has written for children, but it has the hypnotic tug you find in dreams and the story logic has the oddness and inevitability of fables and fairy tales old children. Hard to imagine someone not enjoying this book, whether an adult or middle grade reader or listener. I bought the audible version, which I highly recommend and it is read by the author and it turns out Neil Gaiman could have had a second career as a voice actor. I loved his unique characterizations and accents, and I enjoyed hearing it read in the own voice of the author although this often does not work out well. In short, I loved it, recommend it, and will probably buy the print version to go with the audio.

This is the second Neil Gaiman audio book I listened to and I absolutely loved it. The full cast production was so much more fun than one narrator and brought the story to life, so to speak. The story is about a young boy who, for his own protection, is whisked away as an infant when his parents and older sister are murdered. He is secreted away in a graveyard, raised and protected by the ghosts of the dead. His main protector and mentor, Silas, ensures he has the physical necessities that the spirits cannot attain for him, and teaches him about the world outside of the graveyard. The boy is given the name Nobody, but goes by Bod, and the story tells of his time growing up in the graveyard. The story kept me entertained and wanting more and I was sorry when it ended and The eight half hour narration just was not long enough and I love Neil Gaiman.

I notice the reviews here are mostly by adults and I agree with the five star reviews but I would love to see some reviews from children in the target audience for this book. I have kids and they are eight and six and would not read this to them yet, a family is murdered in their house and only the young toddler escapes. Murder is a driving plot line throughout. The graveyard inhabitants reflect their time in history, the speech pattern of their time, the words, the dialect, I thoroughly enjoyed this, but it is pretty sophisticated and I wonder if it would be lost on most kids, or make them close the book in frustration. The book is worth a read, it is beautifully written and nobody except Owens will make his way into your heart.

This book is a must read and I was extremely sad to finish this spectacular book. I read this in my sixth grade class and this is now my model for my creative writing. The vivid words make me feel like I am right there with Bod, the protagonist. Because of the complex and well described characters, you truly can understand the emotions they feel. A well written plot sucks you into the story where it is practically impossible to guess what could happen next, does this sound like a story you would want to read and it was certainly an amazing book for me.

I got this for my niece, who loves ghost stories. Her younger sister got her parents called for inciting the kindergarten class into a panic after she told them about zombies. The kids were crying when they heard that their dead loved ones, grandpa and grandma would return from the dead with rotting faces and could not be killed, not even with bullets. Anyhow, that is not what this book about, just about the girls I got it for. It is a fine story, much better than Coraline which I thought was a tad boring and much better than The Ocean at the End of the Road, which is not bad, it is just okay, but this is a good story. It is actually a lot of little stories about this kid who grows up raised by ghosts and a vampire and other creatures of the cemetery. I wish I could have read it to my niece, but alas, she lives far away. But it is the perfect book for her and for anyone who likes a little bit of spookiness in their lives. One of my favorite parts is how the advice the ghosts give is dated and it is that attention to goofy detail that makes it such a marvelous read. In my opinion, one of best and most entertaining works of Gaiman.

My granddaughter was about to start this book so I told her I would read it at the same time. I was surprised by the early violence in the story, however, as the story proceeded I found it full of heart warming moments, mystery, and suspense. Story line, think Jungle Book Mowgli except the boy cub is being taken care of by the spirits, souls, and long past residents of a cemetery. The boy, Bod, as in Jungle Book, is taught all the skills of his environment. After many adventures in and out of the cemetery, Bod, is ready to go out and live life in the world. I do have to admit that I kept the book open and ready to be read for two days and I was drawn in and enjoyed the ride.

Another five star read for one of my favorite contemporary authors and the Graveyard Book reds like a fairy tale for grown ups. It is not sophisticated or complicated like American Gods still my favorite Gaiman, but its simplicity hides real pearls of wisdom about life, death, love and family. In the afterword, Gaiman explains that it was inspired by The Jungle Book of Kipling, just with ghosts instead of animals. After his family is murdered by the man Jack, Nobody Owens is adopted and raised by the late residents of a graveyard. He has many adventures and learns many lessons. I loved all the ghosts, even the ghouls, and the ending actually made me tear up which hardly ever happens, magical, tender, sad and hopeful all at once.

The Graveyard Book is the story of Nobody Owens, as an infant, his parents are murdered by a man known only as Jack. Bod totters away during the murders and into the local graveyard and the Owens, who never had children while they were living, decided to be his parents. Since the Owens are ghosts and can not leave the graveyard, Silas vows to be the guardian of Bod, to bring him food and necessities, as long as he is needed. Bod is given the freedom of the graveyard and can interact with it much like the ghosts do. He learns to Fade, dream walk, use fear, and open ghoul gates and as he gets older, Bod begins to get curious about the outside world. Stepping beyond the gates of the graveyard thrusts him into the world of the living, out there, danger awaits, Jack is still there hoping to finish the murders he started years ago.