#73. Starship Troopers
#Robert A. Heinlein
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Starship-Troopers-Robert-Heinlein/product-reviews/0441783589/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Having read some Heinlein works prior and a being fan of the movie, I came in with high expectations. Of course, I was not expecting the movie version and I knew the film was loosely based, but I was expecting more action sequences and battles. Not a bad science fiction read, but the focus is on the military lifestyle and its structure such as how it works, how it fits into society rather than a man versus bug adventure story. Thought provoking, but more politics and philosophy than epic battles with giant insects.

I enjoyed reading this book, I enjoyed the setting and the writing. The only reason why this gets three stars though is I felt like now and then I was getting kicked in the face with a very bizarre and not particularly agreeable political statement as to how the world should be run and what makes an honorable person. Even in the end, the dishonorable individual does the valiant thing by enlisting like his good son. And the corporal punishment system the world runs on, and the author subsequently argues for is bizarre and relatively stone age compared to the futuristic setting. None the less, it was worth reading to look at the universe this book exists in, and if the voice of the political system was made more apart of the story setting, rather then an annoying one sided debate in your ear, it would have gotten more stars. I have picked up another Heinlein to see if its a trend solely with this book or beyond. But still worth reading regardless of this problem.

After watching the movie for years, I finally decided to read the novel that it was based on. I was expecting something more plot, more fights, just more. Instead I get a glorified manual on military life and that a soldier does not know anything important about the war he is fighting in. I am not saying it is a bad book. It is very well written and you do get a sense on what military life is like, for good or bad. There is also the bit about the Skinnies, an alien race not shown in the movie, that is helping the bugs and suddenly they are not. Aliens are not Heinlein thing I know but I think it would have been better to learn more about the Skinnies as well as the Bugs. Perhaps I am in the wrong demographic to be reading this book. I just did not like it as well as I thought I would. By no means am I saying you should not read this book or that this is a bad book. I am just saying do not expect too much if you are looking for fast paced action and epic battles.

While I enjoyed the read, it is not my favorite from Heinlein. What I did find interesting was how rich of a read it was. I was expecting a little more of a detailed account of what the movie portrayed. Come to find out that aside from there being a few characters in the movie that were the same and a couple of ripped lines to justify the name of the movie, the similarity stops there. I was thinking that I was in for more of a story in the book. What it is, is really Heinlein musings about how the military of the future might look like and provided a character and events to unpack it. It is for this that he was so great as a writer. He thought things through to the nth degree. So it is a worthy read, if you like Heinlein, you will most likely like this, just do not expect any of the movie.

Overall the book was moderately enjoyable but not what I was expecting. I was first introduced to the story from the movie so I was somewhat surprised to see the vast difference. There are a few things similar but the book is more a narrative first person account of the experiences of the main character, Johnny Rico. I did not dislike the book but the pace was a little slow and I just could not really identify or connect with the main character. A decent read but not one that I would be revisiting anytime soon.

This is not good science fiction and I know it is hailed as one of the great works of the genre but I fully disagree. It is an interesting social commentary but it is not good science fiction. In fact, the science fiction is a thinly stretched veneer that barely covers and it even breaks in spots, a somewhat labored commentary on the geopolitical environment in which the author lived when he wrote Star ship Troopers. Some parts were really thought provoking like the concept of authority and responsibility in the sovereign power to rule. Also interesting is juxtaposition of communists of Heinlein with the bugs. I respected the fact that he slammed both the Americans and the Communists. So, yes it is worth reading, but it is not a great science fiction and the science fiction is too obviously a vehicle to make a statement and comes off as transparent.

I would like to begin by saying that this book caught me off guard. The book actually has very little to do with fighting the bugs and more to do with the military progression of Rico. The book reminds me of the first half of Fullmetal Jacket and this is not a bad thing. Just know that if you are looking for an action packed story that this may not be the best book for you. That is not to say that this book is bad by any means and is in fact a nice little read that I would recommend to all science fiction fans.

I did not find star ship troopers as enjoyable a most apparently, much of the book, about two third, dealt with the life a recruit. The story told could have been from Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers and it is exactly what one would expect from a 1942 boot camp, a sergeant who yells, squad mates who mess up, lots of running and calisthenics, questioning why I am here. Very little of the book is science fiction star ship troopers and I also forgot that Heinlein gets preachy in the middle of most of his books. He uses dialog to lecture the reader on his thoughts regarding society and politics.

This book came highly recommended but I was disappointed and the action described was limited. Much of the book concerned how to pick men and women out of a group to create an elite force. The reason for this force fit the purpose of this book well but the methods used are well known to most people interested in this type of book. If one is interested in how to form an elite unit the book is for you and if you are interested in space adventure with a great deal of action Terms of Enlistment is a better bet.

I am generally loathe to be too critical of works that are considered classics in their genre and this is one such book. While I did enjoy certain aspects of the novel, there were parts that were slightly too preachy for my taste. I enjoyed the philosophy on government and thought it well worth considering but the character aspects of the book were a bit too simple. Johnnie is, in most respects, a machine with a human name and his emotions are not felt by the reader, merely described. The horror of the bugs is barely illustrated and they are left as mere shapeless antagonists. The book is more about what it means to have an ordered and righteous society and what it means to be the perfect soldier rather than what it means to be a human faced with the inhuman. The interactions between characters are wooden and stilted and I must say that I was mostly disappointed.