#79. March: Book Three
#John Lewis
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/March-Book-Three-John-Lewis/product-reviews/1603094024/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I bought these for my grandchildren to learn the history of the civil rights. I grew up in Al during this time frame giving away my age and it was important to me that they understand all that happened especially more than they can get in school. They loved the books and plan to read again. We will have these to pass along to every generation. Important for younger children to understand the struggles and what we as whites have done and continue to do to people who do not look like us. Can not recommend high enough, thank you John Lewis.

I have a difficult time explaining how much I love this series, it is extremely eye opening. What a creative way to tell Congressman John Lewis story of his time fighting for civil rights in the 1960. His perspective teaches us so much about the hard work that went into the civil rights movement. I found the pages portraying the scenes at the Edmund Pettus bridge very difficult to read. Trying to comprehend what happened to the young men and women on Bloody Sunday brought tears to my eyes. I hope that teachers utilize this series as a tool to show their students this important era of American history.

I have read history books of America, but nothing as powerful as March. The history of John Lewis is a powerful message to all people of all nations that nonviolence can change the state, the country, the world. Just hope and keep faith, it will not be over night, but it will. So thanks to all of them that marched before us. Even if I did not know all those who did in glad, I know a lot of them now through this awesomely fantastic book. I am proud to be a white American and feel love for these fantastic people who not only marched but wrote these three books. My thanks, remember one person, one vote.

March, Book Three picks up where Book Two left off in telling the story of the invigoration of the civil rights movement in the late 1950 and 1960, as seen through the eyes and life experiences of John Lewis, the last living member of the Big Six civil rights leaders who initiated the 1963 March on Washington. Using the graphic novel form, Congressman Lewis, Andrew Aydin and Nate Powell have put the civil rights struggle in words and drawings favored by many young people born many years after the events depicted took place, making that struggle real to them. The three book series does a major service in educating young Americans of all races about a critical period in the civil rights movement.

March, the Book Three by John Lewis, Andrew Aydin, and artist Nate Powell is the third graphic memoir in the trilogy of John Lewis time in the 1960 Civil Rights Movement. Lewis has had a number of close calls throughout the movement, and he has lost a number of friends and colleagues to the violence. And although he does have moments in which he breaks down emotionally, his faith in a nonviolent movement remains strong and propels him through some tough times and disagreements with his fellow Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee members and leaders.

My three book collection is now completed and I thought book two was thick, this one is even thicker. It is about three times thicker than book one if not more. Very good books, quick history about what happened back in the day delivered in a fun way for readers to enjoy. What amazes me is how these two white guys helped this one black dude to get his message or story out there, the history of black versus whites state side. The irony, Great team work guys.

This is a great way to teach people especially kids about the civil rights movement and the struggles that still in modern day people are faced with everyday. My daughter is eleven and she loved this three part book series so much she shares the books with her friends. They discuss as a little book group and try to impact change by having conversations and I am happy they enjoy the reading.

I bought this series for my niece who is starting her first year as an English teacher in Southern Illinois because she is building a library in her classroom. The author was almost rhapsodic and she says that the format, the writing and the art, offers great insight to young people with widely varying reading skills and social backgrounds. Probably more importantly, it provides them with an historic perspective they might not respond to at all if it were presented in another format or medium.

I have admired John Lewis for a long time, but did not know a lot of the details of his life nor of the Civil Rights movement. While this is not a detailed and scholarly history, I would like one of those, it will give the reader a very clear idea of what the original protesters had to go through and just how the different groups worked or did not work with each other. I think I often blur the sixties into a few set images and wipe out full view and the graphic novels of Lewis are an excellent corrective. This would be equally useful for people younger than I am who cannot even dimly remember that era.

The book is the biggest of the three and the quality and content does not disappoint in anyway. Lewis, Aydin, and Powell have done a great service by bringing this project to life. Today the younger generation has little knowledge of what people went through and the harsh and cruel treatments these folks were subjected to on a daily basis. This will be a great addition in bridging that gap and I appreciated a first hand account in a format that illustrates the treatments in a graphical manner which tugs at your heart strings, well done gentlemen, well done.