#80. Hyperbole and a Half: Unfortunate Situations, Flawed Coping Mechanisms, Mayhem, and Other Things That Happened
#Allie Brosh
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Hyperbole-Half-Unfortunate-Situations-Mechanisms/dp/1451666179/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8

I do not like leaving a bad review, so this is not really a bad review and this is more a bad review to the people pitching this book to buyers as the funniest book of the year. I was looking for a funny book, because I was feeling low and needed to laugh. I bought the book because it said it was incredibly funny, and people were in bits over it, however, I realized quickly that this book, as childlike as the drawings were, and as funny as the narrative was meant to be, was a story about a woman who has had deep and serious struggles in life. The part about the dogs might be a bit amusing, but on a whole this is not funny. It addresses mental illness in a way that most people might be able to relate, or at least understand what is going on. One episode spelled out in clear text what depression really is and it is a well written book, and I did finish it in one sitting. I loved the seriousness of it, the honesty behind it, the bravery of telling that story, but it was not a funny book.

I am a long time fan of the blog, so I already knew half of the stories, and it did not take long to get through the rest. The new stories and old, other than the ones mostly about debilitating depression, were absolutely hilarious, but I do not think it took me a whole hour to get through it. I would have appreciated it a lot more if all of the material had been original, considering the old material is still available for free. If you just want to support the author out of a deep seated loyalty, go ahead and buy it, but if you are looking for your next good read that will have you captivated for at least a few days, just read it at the store or request that your library stock it and check it out there.

I love Hyperbole and a Half and I was very excited to receive this in the mail when it came out, unfortunately since I use a wireless optical mouse I can not use it as a mouse pad. When I tried to use it, the movements of the mouse were not being picked up. Also, some of the pages feature such a large image at the top that there is very little space for task lists and I have to write super small and put two items on each line, otherwise, I enjoy using this every week.

This book was full of a lot of old material but they were some of her best old stories. She left out the fish story which disappointed me but the God of Cake kind of made up for it. This book is much more introspective for Allie as she examines herself, her flaws, and her battle with depression. For that purpose the book was very interesting to me, but I am a psychology major. If you are expecting the Allie Brosh that took the internet by storm this book is not it, but if you can push yourself through it you will see that Allie is now focused on taking herself by storm.

I picked this up because I saw near universal 5 star reviews for this book on pretty much every site ever. I felt like I missed it when I was reading and I really enjoyed 2 of the stories, the one about birthday cake and the goose and I will not give too much away, but the rest of the book I found pretty average. I was not a reader of her blog, so maybe there is some relationship building needed for me to really be moved by the writing and I thought the format was cool though with the illustrations.

So, it is kind of unfair for me to give this three stars, because that suggests that it is not a good book, which it is. Humor is a subjective thing and I liked this book and I felt it was well done and also illuminating in many spots as to depression. I just did not find it very funny and I chuckled once, but I know many will find this laugh out loud funny, it just was not hitting on my humor spots.

This type of book is new to me, with all the drawings in it and I started reading it and found my self laughing out loud, Brosh is a good writer with a great sense of humor. As I read more, the subject matter became more serious, though still always approached with humor. I thought it was very insightful and eye opening as far as explaining depression and it is a quick read, and worth it.

I wanted to like it, I wanted to laugh and I wanted to have a book to recommend to friends as a you have got to read this book and it is a real hoot, sadly, it just did not click for me. It brought an occasional smirk but nothing that seemed overtly funny. I really liked the My Dad Said book and stuff by Jeff Foxworthy but this book is different from those and I just simply did not enjoy it.

There is no doubt that Brosh is hilarious and she has a way with words which I only wish I had. And I adore the pictures, they are so simple, yet they are so perfectly hilarious for each situation and you will laugh out loud, a lot. The depression bit had me in tears which made me feel badly because I was laughing hysterically at someone contemplating their lack of self worth, but that is the genius of Brosh. She can even make depression absolutely funny and she can make dogs funny and she can make a piece of corn funny.

I wish there was a three and a half rating, I would use it. It is not that I did not like the book or the illustrations I just found it extremely distracting to have to interrupt the flow of reading the story to reading the copy on the graphics. I must not have been paying attention when I bought it as I did not realize it would be a graphic novel or I would not have made the purchase. The topic and writing are clever and honest, I did appreciate that, but I struggled to get all the way to the end and began ignoring all the graphics.