#81. Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)
#Dan Simmons
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Hyperion-Cantos-Dan-Simmons/dp/0553283685/ref=sr_1_21?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-21

This book can be described as Canterbury Tales set in space with monsters. Some of the tales are more interesting than others. About half way through I realized I was not going to be interested enough to read the second book. Then it turns out this is a two part story that the situation the travelers are going to address is not addressed until the next book and I am not interested to find out what happens.

I will order the next book in the series, however, thought there would be more of a true ending to this first book. Also, without playing spoiler, the stories of the individual travelers or seekers were somewhat uneven. Some were a lot more interesting than others, and all of the stories could have used editing for length. Thinking about it, this is more like a collection of short stories, than a true science fiction novel.

After getting to the journal of the priest, I thought the world building and action would pick up. Finally landing on Hyperion was exciting and kept me reading. But after numerous entries with no real progress or interesting events, I felt like the reading became a responsibility more than enjoyment. That is when I decided to move on, after looking ahead, that is, and seeing numerous more pages of these journal entries. Maybe they gain momentum and end up not being a log of travel of this man. I am hoping to start back reading it when I need something and will try one more go at it. I have a feeling it gets good, it just took extremely too long for me.

Several utterly strange stories come together in a huge mashup of science fiction concepts, loosely connected together by an overarching journey. Many of the individual stories from our characters are compelling and evocative. The Hyperion universe is weird, wonderful, and uncomfortable all at once. You will catch glimpses of other science fiction works folded neatly into the embrace of Hyperion. The Neuromancer of Gibson plays a small part, for example, with all these stories and grand plot lines weaving, however, you may hope that by the end of this long book you would find the purpose to this madness. But no, only a very unsatisfying cliffhanger for you, my boy, now be a good lad and buy the next book.

This book is a split story of one central mystery and six characters to support that mystery and the shrike is this time travailing evil anti ghost. A cult that worships him asks people to go and offer themselves as sacrifices to him. Seven main characters, the diplomat, the poet, the dad, the priest, the other priest, the soldier, and the detective, who decide to explain their connection to the shrike and why they offer themselves. However none of their stories matter because right before the ending the book ends, not that that is a bad thing it was just done wrong. Personally I liked the Poet and the stories of the detective best and most of the characters were interesting, the universe was interesting, I liked the book, or I guess this part of a book.

I picked up this book after reading a lot of positive reviews and the plot follows six pilgrims and their backstories in a far future that has seen the destruction of earth and the emergence of faster than light travel and ascendant AI technologies. I enjoyed the mystery and world building elements of this book, but felt like it dragged in parts, spending a lot of time describing irrelevant details, like the sky or every detail of face of someone. I felt like other details could have been explained better, for example, the Hawking Mats. Also, Simmons will occasionally use metaphors and similes that seem to rely on knowledge of in universe technologies in his first person accounts, did not find these particularly useful as a reader.

I was very disappointed with this book and It is really a collection of short stories that have almost nothing to do with each other, with the overarching plot that is only superficially related to the short stories. It seems like the author wrote a bunch of short stories at one point in his life and then later decided to squish them together into a novel, modifying them slightly so that they somewhat touched upon the overarching plot.

So with radio stations replaying songs over and over I thought for longer trips I would get a few audio books as something different to listen to. I was looking for a few low cost books with good reviews and this books tells the story of a group of travelers, well more of their background in this book. I found each story of the different people holding my attention. The writer does a good job of adding in mystery to each story making you want to listen to just one more chapter. I found myself sitting in parking lots or my driveway wanting to get to the end of a chapter just to find out what happens.

Hyperion started slow, but the story of the pilgrims was pretty interesting. Good writing, intriguing premise, worth the read, but looking ahead, judging by reviews, the story becomes too long and too descriptive. Plus it looks like lots more reading through long segments that do not further the plot, so the question is, do I want to give up on the series now or invest more time and money on what will probably be a slog. I am choosing to let it go versus invest more and the negative reviews of the next books in the series have scared me off. I would like to know the ending, but most reviews indicate it was not worth it, as a stand alone book Hyperion was great, I do not want to be disappointed.

I understand that sometimes it is about the journey, not the destination, but six separate stories loosely tied to a single plot line, none of which get resolved in this book. I did not even get a sense of climax at the end of the story of anyone, or even the book itself. Essentially four hundreds and eighty pages of character exposition, also, a lot of eighties gender stereotypes. Although, great writing skills, all the stories were different genres, different styles even.