#82. Neuromancer
#William Gibson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Neuromancer-William-Gibson/dp/0441007465/ref=sr_1_23?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-23

Today, NEUROMANCER may seem dated, as some note, but this single book, like the 2001, A Space Odyssey of Kubrick changed the look and tone of science fiction forever. Many of the words Gibson created changed our lexicon and he helped create a way to speak and consider the rapidly evolving digital, internet world then that we can not live without today. You may not like the characters, I did not, but he helped me grasp, as no one else, the world to come.

Neuromancer by William Gibson is one of the most influential science fiction novels written in recent decades, ushering in the cyberpunk sub genre. While it is historic importance and influence should never be dismissed, the book holds up very well with a compelling plot, interesting characters and some memorable phrases. Even with the growing popularity of cyberpunk, the book remains as fresh as it was when it first came out almost thirty five years ago. This remains one of the cornerstones of science fiction novels, highly recommended.

Reading this book some thirty years later still left me with feelings of nailed it, and I can see that. I do not know how Gibson was able to imagine a world of jacking into the net and getting past the ice of connected systems, hacking away to obtain some priceless data. This sounds like present day, a must read of a book if there ever was one. With this book came the genre we know as cyberpunk, novels many years later are still using this same formula. Read the Snow Crash of Neal Stephenson, really an awesome book too, for another book, along with or based on this one that basically define a genre.

Neuromancer is a staple of science fiction literature and if you are ordering this, I do not need to go on any further about the contents of the book. That being said, if you like me are buying this edition because it will look better on your bookshelf than your battered old paperback copy, you might want to reconsider. The cover image is neat and all, but the title is upside down on the spine. This is an intentional, though baffling, design choice that is present on all copies of these Penguin Galaxy special editions. My copy of Dune came the same way and it looks like both books are upside down whenever they are on the shelf. Odd complaint, I know, but I can not imagine why these books were designed this way, happy reading.

A classic from William Gibson, I read this in college and was pleased to enjoy it more this time around. Fair warning that Gibson will throw neologisms at you immediately, with usually no explanation what they mean. This can be deterring for some and there are many online sites to help you get through the rough patches of this book. I advise you not to give up on it, well worth the read and I look forward to reading his other books.

This is kinda where it all began and the matrix movies and a whole lot of science fiction stealing right from this book. It is a fun read and can not believe I waited so many years to read it, worth the time, however I found at times I was lost. Transitions in the chapters were not clear and there were times I had no idea what was going on but kept on reading knowing it would get clear again and that is the only really part why I gave it four stars.

Being told that this book paved a path for epic stretches of imagination, did not prepare me for what was to be. I loved the ideas that littered the book and gave it a strong futuristic feel, so much so, that at times, I had trouble keeping up. My mind was not prepared to bend in such directions, often rereading to ensure that I was interpreting correctly.

William Gibson is one of the finest American novelists of all time and Neuromancer is his finest work and It is taut, deep, and vast. Basically all science fiction after this owes its existence to it, from the matrix to the entire Steam Punk genre. It is quality and importance cannot be overstated, coming in at multiple pages the book is literary antimatter, packing more punch per page than anything since Bradbury.

I have had this book on my shelf since the nineties, so glad I finally read it. I had the same reaction reading this as I did reading Dune that the writing is brilliant, the characters vivid, the story compelling, but beyond these aspects, the work is seminal, so much of the genre and it is conventions flow from the tropes employed in this book. I had a blast reading it, although the prose of Gibson needs carefully attention at times to unravel.

I know the book is a classic but I did not understand half of it and I think I know English well enough but I could not distinguish what was English and what the constructs of Gibson. Otherwise, the story itself is straightforward and I did not like the protagonist, he seems generic to me. Maybe this is on purpose and I liked the other characters and the end is a bit ambiguous and the start a bit uneventful. From about chapter three, the story kicks off and the pace gradually rises.