#87. The Blind Assassin: A Novel
#Margaret Atwood
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Blind-Assassin-Novel-Margaret-Atwood/dp/0385720955/ref=sr_1_31?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-31

How to describe, saying I loved this book is not enough, but any analysis I could offer would be pale. After I turned the last page I had to take a break from starting a new book for several days because all the samples I surveyed did not grab me like what I had just finished. Beyond the alternating stories, which dovetail very well, the words are beautifully selected, and never tedious. I really cared about the characters, and no one is pure protagonist or the antithesis, simply, Margaret Atwood is in a league of her own.

If I thought summarizing the book up was hard, I can say that telling you why I loved this book is equally difficult. It is no secret that Atwood has a way with words and is able to weave a complex story with complete ease, but she is also able to foster empathy for misunderstood characters. Atwood manages to recreate a world where the suppression of women is commonplace, but not evil, while at the same time punctuating the story with little rebellions by strong women. Feminism in the 1930 was of a very different variety than today and the ability of Atwood to capture both the the reality of the times and the subtle ways women rebelled is nothing short of stunning.

I just turned the last page of Blind Assassin of Margaret Atwood and Atwood expanded my heart and mind with this amazing and engrossing book. My heart is throbbing and my mind stretches into the lives and the future of the story that continues in the nowhere space of everywhere where great novels continue to unfold. I feel like my perceptions and appreciations of people I know and am yet to meet are deeper, more clear and more vivid.

This is my first Atwood book and I absolutely loved it and the multiple story lines are well written and intertwined. The reader is able to watch the lives of Laura and Iris unfold and watch them grow up and start to understand the world around them. The story Blind Assasin that Laura wrote is creative in telling the audience the story of Laura and Iris, but also including the secret parts of their lives, however, Iris did not grow a as character. In the beginning she just went along with what she was told and never went against anything, not even to protect her sister from Richard. She never reached out to her granddaughter and did little to nothing to stop Winifred from stealing Aimee, even at the end, the reader does not see her growing. She is the same, complacent character. Atwood included the perfect mix of mystery, love stories, drama, and family problems to create a beyond incredible story.

Atwood is a tough minded woman and this book is about a tough minded woman, Iris Chase Griffin. The sections alternate between writing of Iris as an old woman, which is about both her present life and her memories, dated newspaper articles about her and other people in her life, and a science fiction novel called The Blind Assassin. It is like reading a detective novel with clues coming from each of the writings that help you sort out what happened with Iris, her younger sister, Laura, their socialist friend, Alex, and rich ambitious husband of Iris, Richard. The setting is Toronto and Port Ticonderoga, Canada of the thirties and forties and Iris is a delight to be with in her cranky dotage, and the book leaves one breathless with awe.

I selected this book as a literary break from my usual diet of Le Carre and other spy novels, my choice largely based on its Booker award status and this is a long book, and it took me a long time to get into it. Some of the literary devices are not fully revealed until the last third, and they were challenging to follow early on. But stick with it and you will be rewarded with fabulous writing and a thought provoking finish. Now back to my thrillers, but I will be looking for another book by this author soon.

This book is rather strange even for Margaret Atwood who is known for being an unconventional writer, as always the prose is impeccable and the narrative portion of the story as told by Iris is captivating. The Blind Assassin or the story within a story is odd, even for Atwood and I am not entirely clear on its purpose as part of the story. True to form Atwood paints a picture of two women who make the very best of less than ideal circumstances in very different ways. The story, on the whole, is rather bleak, but then Atwood is known for feminist allegories not happy endings and this book delivers.

The mind of Margaret Atwood is a treasure, thank you for sharing it with us and I read this book through, then immediately, read it again, it is that good. This book has an incredible story to tell, of family, fortune and bone deep betrayal, you will not be able to read this in stages, this story cannot wait.

People have been telling me to read this book for years, I am a great fan of Margaret Atwood and had just never read this one, so I finally picked it up. This book is different than her other more science fiction oriented books and it reads like Kate Morton wrote a story where one of the main characters was a science fiction author, which is to say I greatly enjoyed it and I love stories of Kate Morton as well and so this was a good blend. The story goes back and forth between the early 1900 and modern times, told by one of the main protagonists, interspersed with a novel written by one of the other characters. The narrator has many regrets and works through them as the novel progresses.

This was the first book I have read by Margaret Atwood, and I have already ordered Alias Grace. She is a storyteller in the grandest sense, with intricately woven plotlines, and engaging and mysterious characters. The two central to this story are sisters, Iris and Laura Chase. The former is our narrator, and she opens the book by recounting on page one the circumstances of the death of her sister. From there the book moves from the present, back to the past, and to a novel within the novel that slowly reveals its origins as the story progresses. This is not a light read, and the multiple stories demand your attention, very much like Possession of Byatt. Yet the writing is so rich, and the story so absorbing, I found it a thoroughly rewarding read.