#88. Possession
#A. S. Byatt
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Possession-S-Byatt/dp/0679735909/ref=sr_1_34?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576833&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-34

I have owned this book since it was first published and had been waiting years to purchase it for my Kindle. It is an enchanting mix of love, mystery and history, blended intentionally with poetry and short stories. This is a highly literary book, no wonder it won the Booker Prize. If you are a casual reader who likes to skim fairly superficial fiction, it will most likely not appeal to you. If, however, you enjoy settling in with a book and immersing yourself in wonderfully formed characters, and are willing to take a side trip with the poetry or short stories interspersed throughout, all of which are critical to the story itself, then this is the novel for you, love, love, love this book.

I knew the plot and I knew this book to be rather important in the recent history of British literature, but I did not expect it to be that exciting, like a detective story proceeding into the labyrinth of human heart. La Motte and Ash are two marvelous characters, so peculiar and yet so universal in their discovery of love and reciprocal understanding. Byatt is very much precise in reconstructing the fictive poetry and prose of that century. And then the scholars, described as mediums obsessed with the living spirit of dead people and I kind of like very much that idea. And what else, essays and essays have been written on it, the movie does not do it justice though it has been a nice try and I would describe Possession as a real must.

I had no idea that I would enjoy this novel as much as I did and it combines the elegance of the Romantic era poets with the pragmatism of the modern investigators and it is a romance and a mystery too. What I really loved about this novel was its depth and scholarly presentation through letters, journal entries, historical comments, and the actual poetry of the characters. It is unlike many of the current novels that have a bare bones plot and character description. The language of Possession is lyrical and solid, complex and beautifully written. I have to say that the reader has to be motivated to undertake reading a novel of this stature, but the rewards of delving into its depth are many and it is a pure joy.

This is not an easy read, unless you are conversant in Victorian poetry and literature, and the classics. And it is not a romance in the modern sense, it is a story and the main characters do indeed ultimately get romantically linked, but it is the story of the passion of pursuit of knowledge. It has been compared to writings of Umberto Eco, but while it has some dense, erudite passages, it is not as difficult to read and this book is worth the effort.

When my sister gave me this book and told me I had to read it, I was hesitant. I am not one for most romance novels, but the art on the cover intrigued me, once I began, I could not stop. Byatt seamlessly weaves two relationships set years apart into a delightful, inventive, breathtakingly written whole. The characters, especially the poets in the earlier story, seem so real, and so much of their world is meticulously created, down to some of the actual poems of poets, that I was almost convinced they really existed. This book worked for me on many levels that literary, romance, and mystery solving and it is got my vote for one of the best novels of the twentieth century.

I reread this every couple of years, and it always holds up and there are so many layers. Maybe it is because I was also a penurious graduate student living in a basement, attic in my case. I have to confess routinely skipping most of the long poems, although the smaller pieces are good. The movie also is an excellent adaptation, necessarily leaving out some of the characters in the name of compression.

I am just absolutely floored by the amount of research and writing that went into making this book. To make up poems, and articles, and letters, and excerpts of biographies that all fit together to make a believable tale like this, is no small feat. I was glued to the pages for days until I finally finished in one morning and I can not wait to read another of Byatt novels.

This book was recommended as a good choice for after The Winter Sea and it has a bit of the same tone, but, that is where it ends. The story follows two scholar types who start to unravel a poet mystery and the narrative goes back and forth between current time and history. I enjoyed the overall story, narrative, and conclusion and the only part I could have done without was the actual poetry. This is a long and satisfying read for anyone who enjoys literary history and mystery.

This book is so hard to read if you try to get into the poetry, the Latin and mythological references so I suggest if you struggle with it, skim the difficult bits on the first read through. The mystery is really good, then I recommend you go back and reread it again, seeking out an understanding of the difficult stuff. Worth the time, the author must have an amazing retentive mind, we are lucky she likes to share.

Byatt is a former academic, and she dissects academia with laser like precision in this novel. It is everything in one, a well plotted mystery, an intriguing love story, times two, an academic satire, a wonderfully done historical, a clear and striking picture of the lot of women and especially women artists and writers in Victorian England, and an ode to the poetry of that period. How this book did not get onto the lists of the best in this century is beyond me, stunning prose, and first class storytelling.