#89. Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)
#Orson Scott Card
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Speaker-Ender-Quintet-Orson-Scott/dp/0312853254/ref=sr_1_35?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576833&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-35

I did not think it was possible to fall more in love with the character Ender and I think now I just find him more believable as his interesting approach to problem solving and cerebral outlook seems more appropriate on a thirty something year old than a six to twelve year old. Card writes about this new galactic community so beautifully so that you really care about each character he involves you with and there are quite a few and for the indigenous species that exist on the planet. By far one of my favorite books, and I think I would recommend this even if your are not that into science fiction because I would say this is more of an anthropological study than scientific. I loved every second reading this and was genuinely sad when it was over.

Innovative and disturbing, Speaker is not as enjoyable as the first book of the series and the main character makes some remarkable observations about society, religion, and government. By placing the action on an alien planet, an author can say whatever he wants about our world, without fear of being sued, or attacked by the media, or the police. This is after all, one of the primary functions of science fiction and not to say that the planet is a thinly disguised Earth, by no means. In fact, the complex culture, the aliens themselves, and the devastating virus that impacted the whole ecosystem, displays again the brilliant imagination of Orson Scott Card and I do recommend this book, but suggest caution. I read it in measured doses, partly because the science stuff such relativity issues, environmental effects, gave me a headache, but especially because the emotional results of violence, hatred, bigotry, and disease were so detailed that it was hard to take all at once, anyway worth the trouble.

This Ender book can be read as a sequel to the game of Ender or on its own and it is tender, moving, compassionate, knowing and Card is superb at exploring character, motive, affect. He weaves a whole science fiction world that is at once believable and fantastic, populated at long last with the Buggers again and now with a new species, Piggies, with their strange biology and customs. Ender continues to deepen, and his computer lover Jane is remarkable, but so are the people he meets, and comes to love, on Lusitania, some of them humans. Card is a wonderful writer, and this book exceeds the game of Ender Game in its complex weaving of stories and characters. His universe is as vast as Asimov, with more believable characters, highly recommended.

This book is, quite frankly, the best book I have read since it is courser the game of Ender and I believe it deserves more stars than I can give it. The book starts off with a somewhat slow prelude to the rising action, but by the end of the first chapter, this book will have you hooked. The book works perfectly as either a sequel or a standalone novel making it a great starting to the Ender quintet of books, and yet, continues the story of the original book perfectly. The characters are very deeply described, and falling in love with them is no hard task at all. The story does take place on a Portuguese colony, and therefore, as a native English speaker, has some characters that have very hard to pronounce the names of, but manages to include a section on the pronunciation of Portuguese letters and names. The book has such a wide variety of characters that it is easy to find one that you can relate to, and even if you are not into the science fiction category of books, this one will make for an excellent read anyway.

I have loved and enjoyed the whole Ender series, since I first bought the hard copies from a book club and I have to reread and now listen to them every so often. My fascination with the little boy lost, the merciless military that created him and uses him for its purpose, his loving sister and hateful brother. In short, all the well crafted characters that inhabited these books, make it a formidable saga and a reading or listening experience hard to forget.

The only criticism I have is that he picked the humans to be represented by Portuguese. I am fluent in Spanish and so I probably understood a lot more than most readers, nonetheless the names and words are often written in unusual ways with different pronunciations which makes the characters difficult to remember and distinguish. I think Card could have achieved exactly the same thing by making it a Spanish colony with Spanish words and names and this would have made it significantly easy for readers to understand and relate to his book. This is why I give it a four star rating instead of five stars and the real loser here is Card because so many readers will give up on the book before getting into it, guaranteeing that they will never get to the next books in the series. That is money out of his pocket since I got through that difficulty I will continue the journey into his next books.

I have two reasons you should read this book and if you have read classic the game of Ender of Orson Scott Card, then I strongly recommend that you read this book as well. It rounds out the story and the characters from that book and if you have been looking for Science Fiction where the alien race is really alien, this book is a must read. One of the best parts of this book is that the nature of the aliens is not just an interesting accessory to the story, it is vital to the plot. Ender must unravel the mystery of this alien race in order to survive and Orson Scott Card is one of the most creative minds and one of the best story tellers in science fiction today.

Speaker for the Dead displays a clear evolution in the writing of the author as the second book in The Ender Quartet. This continuation of the original story is every bit as griping as the first in the series, if not quite as exciting, more deeply involving for interest and attention of the readers. It will be hard to find a place to put this one down, and even harder not to jump right into the next in the series as you finish. If you liked the game of Ender, Speaker for the Dead will be everything you want it to, perhaps more. See how Ender has grown up, and how he puts his gifts to use as the original Speaker for the Dead and enjoy a new species, planet, and complete new set of characters in this must have for any science fiction fan.

Picking up where the Game of Ender left off, we find Ender, no longer using his nickname but his actual name of Andrew, starting over on another planet. As usual another Excellent Read and I do not believe in Spoilers so that is about all I will say, except that I have loved the the Game Book of Ender collection for as long as I can remember. I have read every book in the series so many times that my paperback books are worn out and I have purchased replacement books a few times. I Love not only the the game of Ender Series, but even those additional series which are related to it, especially the Shadow Series, what An Awesome read.

This is the second book in the Ender series both chronologically and in quality and it is pretty well written and presents a lot of interesting dilemmas and issues from unique perspectives. When Card is on and my guess with a good editor, as in this book, he does a great job of making the reader think while holding a very interesting story. Being able to look at a seemingly one sided issue as family abuse and present the whole story is a unique talent that speaks to the ability of Card as a writer. While he has the ability to get off track easily, he holds strong in this one and is definitely a good read, unfortunately it is probably the last good book in the series, but I think is a must read for this science fiction set.