#90. Wolf Hall
#Hilary Mantel
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Wolf-Hall-Hilary-Mantel/dp/0312429983/ref=sr_1_39?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576833&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-39

Oh my God, I wanted to like this book and I just can not and I resolve myself to getting through it and simply cannot read more than a few pages before finding some put off chore around the house I would rather tend to. The writing style of the author is just flat out strange, for every paragraph I read, I swear I have got to go back two in order to figure out who he or she is.

I am an avid reader of historical fiction and I felt that this book would fit right into my wheelhouse, however, even though I knew the history of the events, I could not follow the disjointed manner in which this book was presented. The incessant use of pronouns left me constantly in doubt as to what character was speaking or was being spoken about and I gave up after reading half of the book. I know most of the reviews were positive, but I just did not get it.

For all its awards, I found this book disappointing and there is no insight, just the mental gymnastics of making up extensive dialog and some characters to flesh out the lives of several others. The frequent use of vague pronouns is just irritating, especially since the unclear pronouns appear when Cromwell is speaking to a character who shows up only briefly and the reader can not be familiar enough with character to realize who the author refers to. Besides being irritating, the writing breaks the immersion in the story and the use of very modern language also tends to break immersion. I get the value of not trying to use outdated language, every time some character said something ludicrously modern. All of these annoyances could be set aside if only the book were more engaging and I read it for my book group and otherwise would probably not have finished it.

I really do not know if I am the only one on earth that is having a confusing time reading this book and there are many characters to keep straight and others that seem random and not mentioned again. Mantel writes a bit differently, I feel, and many of her pronouns are confusing, in regards to the exact person she is referring to. I am wading through it and, hoping against hope, that bring up the bodies is less cumbersome, since I bought both. Have heard wonderful things about these books, but maybe they just are not for me, or I will get use to the way of writing of the author and hope I am going to have some semblance of meaning by the end of the book. I love historical fiction and have never had problems with other writers, so will keep trying to figure it out.

I realize that I am certainly in the minority with this less than stellar review and I have read many books about the Tudor reign of England. I have set this book aside now, after a little over two hundred pages and I may or may not go back to it. Luckily, I am familiar with the main players involved in the drama of King Henry and his obsession with Anne Bolelyn so I knew who was who, however, I often did not know who was speaking. Obviously, this is the distinct style of writing by this author, but I found it distracting, so bottom line for me, it was just okay, not great, have read better regarding this subject matter, and frankly after all of the great reviews and the award that the book received, I expected a better read. Must just be me though, most people loved it and I am glad I waited and did not pay the original price and now will not buy the sequel that just came out.

It is always interesting to read of the intoxication, over the top era of the reign of Henry the eighth and his entertaining life with his first two queens. The thing about this book is it takes it from an entirely new vantage point and retells the well worn tale bringing it into a new light. Anne and Henry are secondary figures to the outsider Thomas Cromwell and we see how the Royal actions are viewed by more common folk and the political or theological struggles that took place to get the Tudor king what he wanted. The life of Cromwell is fascinating, and one I knew nothing about, however I found I had to force my way through the pages to get to the meat of the story. It was not always easy to tell if the person speaking was Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Moore or Cardinal Wosley. I often had to go back a page or two to see who was speaking to who and a reader should not have to do that. In all I found the book unclear, and because of that, slow going and I would have loved to read the sequel but I do not want to put myself through this again so will be looking for something new, too bad.

A very skillful writer and devoted researcher messed up her book by writing an historic novel in the present tense. For reasons unknown, this has become a fad in the past few years and it is extremely annoying to the reader and overwhelms all other reactions to what is actually a beautifully detailed picture of the Middle Tudor period. Wolf Hall is supposedly the first book in a trilogy and, frankly it has no plot, on the other hand, Mantel is a tremendously gifted wordsmith, with a fine talent for bringing her characters to life when she choose to use it.

I set out to read this two years ago and abandoned it and the constant use of he for Cromwell, the main character, was confusing. About six weeks ago I decided to tackle it again and knowing what I did about the idiosyncratic writing made it easier and the characters are fascinating and I loved the depiction of the life of Cromwell. The story was extremely slow moving, however, about four hundred pages to get Anne Boleyn installed as queen, and another two hundred plus to get rid of Thomas More. I am guessing that the Brits appreciate the many characters and wit more than we Americans do and I have a Masters Degree, not in literature, but I feel that I am qualified to read a book like this and I just did not enjoy it very much.

I always try to finish what I start, but I have found with novels that if I am not enjoying it and I have gotten more than halfway through I need to just move on. This was hard to accept as I paid for it, so I want to finish it, but I have learned that my time is valuable and if I am not enjoying that time and I need to try something else. I had read so many wonderful reviews for this book and for the sequel so wanted to read this one first and I do usually enjoy historical fiction. But it had way too many characters, and I could just never get into the book or connect with the characters, so I have given up halfway through which is hard to admit but truthful.

I stopped reading it about forty percent of the way through the book and that is very unusual for me and I also am knowledgeable about the time period and Henry eighth, but I could hardly follow it. You never knew who was talking and I had planned on reading the trilogy but changed my mind on that and I decided there are many good books dealing with Henry and I could stop torturing myself trying to follow the plot.