#95. Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)
#Kim Stanley Robinson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Green-Mars-Trilogy-Stanley-Robinson/dp/0553572393/ref=sr_1_44?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-44

Of the Mars Trilogy this by far the best because the characterizations and hard science makes this stand out and I do not know how well the author planned the sequels. The sequel science was okay but of course became more and more speculative and the author then used one plot device that ruined the rest of the series. Out of nowhere we suddenly had near immortal life spans and this allowed the same characters to live through the Terraforming changes. Lazy writing but I still highly recommend this book and I read the sequels but do not recommend them.

Red Mars is a long, albeit good hard Science Fiction novel that takes the reader deep into the ruddy landscape of Mars via a massive cast of characters. I must admit that I found the central love triangle a tiresome repetition of soap opera like dialogue, but the level of realism combined with the scope of the work is truly admirable. The author of Red Mars, Kim Stanley Robinson, clearly did the necessary homework to displace the reader from our natural environment and deposit us deep into the vast desert like terrain of Mars. The multicultural facets explored along the way, and their inclusion into the martian mindset, make this a work of science fiction artistry. While a bit drawn out, the perseverance reader will walk away from Red Mars with his head held high, a mouthful of Martian dust, and a deeper understanding of what it is to tackle a completely alien world and redefine it in only a way humans might.

I bought the red or blue or Green Mars series when they were originally published. My son has recently read the book The Martian, and I thought this was the perfect time to introduce them to the books of Robinson, so I purchased them again. They are college age students and absolutely love them, as I did when they came out. The books are hard science based, with political and personal intrigue to make things interesting. The books are an easy read and keep the reader engaged and I found his style to be somewhat akin to Arthur Clark, both are grounded in science, but incredibly imaginative at the same time.

The book caught and held my attention and I know just enough science to be able to appreciate how carefully the story is based on science, yet is not made prosaic or too explanatory by that scientific basis. The book focuses on a group of one hundred scientists who are very human. They do not all respond truthfully to the questions selecting them for the trip, for instance and they have egos, and they want to be on Mars, often for conflicting reasons. This is a story of politics, personal love and hate, and ecology and the science is astounding, but the dramatic and mythic elements carry the story, and, indeed, the whole trilogy and I am beginning Blue Mars now.

The purported story of the colonization of Mars and the first one hundred especially selected colonists were brilliant, but racked with political and social differences. These differences began to present themselves as they shuttled through space, why is it that our political views always divide us so. Finally leaders emerge and plans that had already been decided came into question and the ascent on Mars became convoluted and destructive. Same thought groups formed and pushed their agendas until finally chaos reined and a few of the original one hundred were left, now in their eighties. Escaping the corporations and corrupt earth government to hide in the ice cap and regroup, a very sophisticated read and one that makes you think.

I keep forgetting how many books I purchase and I started this last week, so I am not finished with it yet and I am about seventy percent through the book and I am really enjoying it. With the extent of geographical description, I wish I had a map of Mars to track allot of this. It follows colonists from different parts of Earth, colonizing Mars and the political ramifications that ensues between groups concerned about what their actions will do to the planet and others that look at it as advancement, regardless of the outcome. It is starting to lean to more than talk with a few possible intentional violent retaliations, just getting into that. So far, this book is a very good read, even a little technical, as I said, I wish I had a map, but I read every night for at lease a half hour after going to bed, not sure that I can handle a map also.

There is no doubt this is a classic, a great science fiction story, but it took me a long time to plow through it. Much of it, most of it in fact, is absolutely brilliant, but lots of it is boring as hell and I know I do not have a fraction of the knowledge about Mars as the author does, but after awhile, I did not care. I thought most of the characters were a tad weak though most had their moments when you really did care about them. Lots of stuff seemed implausible, though not wildly so, all in all, I would put this between three and four stars, entertaining, but you can do better.

Red Mars, and the Mars trilogy as a whole, is fantastic, rarely does science fiction dare to go as deep into the realm of human culture and society as Robinson does and this is what makes his writing so special and relevant. This does not cause a lack of thoughtful hard science either, as there are beautiful and detailed descriptions of the geographic, meteorological, and geological features of the present Mars, as well as the fictional Terraformed Mars. Tagging along with the details on the planet itself, there are great descriptions of the science behind how this terraforming happens, and the technologies that exist in the future solar system. But again, the ability to project the needed changes in human society and economics into this trilogy is what gives it its character and importance. Highly recommended and I could not put the books down, and quickly became invested in the story and characters.

Easily the most entertaining book I have read in ages. I love the story line, the characters, and the way everything develops. I had to refrain from adding that last star for two reasons though and many areas of the story were long and drawn out, making rather normal story points really boring. The ending was so blunt, especially after the long drawn out details about escaping from the flood and that journey, the fact that the remainder of the journey takes less than ten pages is really strange. It is more like the author just got tired of writing and wanted to move into the next book.

If you are looking for a light read for the beach or in your hammock, this is not the book for you. This is an incredibly complex, detailed and marvelously researched novel about the initial colonization of the planet Mars. It is the first book I have read in ages where I had to keep a dictionary, a geology textbook and a scale map of Mars handy. My electronic version of the book contained a completely inadequate map of Mars, so I had to do my own research just to follow the progression of events in the novel. Bottom line, this is a superior Bang for the buck and will keep you enthralled for days.