#96. The City & The City: A Novel (Random House Reader's Circle)
#China Mieville
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/City-Novel-Random-Readers-Circle/dp/034549752X/ref=sr_1_45?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-45

I guess I was expecting a lot more from this book and it was not bad but as not exciting until almost the end. I can see how a lot of people would give up or be bored by this book though. There are a lot of descriptions of the cities and of the people from each one. I think though he had to do that or I do not think anyone would really be able to understand how a city can be in a city and the people who live there can tell the difference between the two. Anyways it was a very interesting premise but the story just was not fast paced or interesting enough for me. I think it could have been better, for a type of detective novel with a bit of a weirdness of the city thrown in it was just okay. I think it may have been better if the third place, existed and there was a more hinting story there.

Mieville was trying to write a Borges premise in a style that is a mixture of Kafka and Dashiell Hammett. It is all there, the divided city, the oppressive Eastern European environment, the seedy hard boiled detective story. The ingredients are perfectly crafted and there is no insult to world building and style of Mieville, because these elements are truly excellent, but these ingredients just do not work together well, especially considering the amateur plotting. The author has to tie things off with a shady agency and a bevy of newly introduced characters in the last quarter of the book because it is just become too complex and crazy for one person to deal with. It becomes apparent at that point that all the events that went before did not exist to advance the plot but rather to fill out the setting. The plot simply does not come together until the end of the book, and by then it is difficult to continue caring and this was a nice experiment in style, but the story grafted onto it just does not satisfy.

The premise to this novel is great, and it is a good crime novel wrapped up in a quasi science fiction or fantasy package, but the culmination of all that hard work of building a very complicated system kind of falls flat at the climax. Still worth the read because of its clever approach at the ideas of segregation, but it did not quite live up to the potential it boasted from the start.

To really work all fiction requires a certain willing suspension of disbelief and this is most obvious in science fiction, fantasy and horror where drives and vampires make regular appearances. The author must weave these elements of the story in with other more believable elements in such a way that the reader buys in and accepts the whole contrived reality. That did not happen in the city and the city and I could not buy into what seemed to me to be the unrealistic setting and the way the characters reacted to it. It seemed contrived and silly and the idea of unseeing was no more believable than if the population had been divided into those who would hop about on their left foot while others would hop on their right foot and they would ignore each other and wave with opposite arms. Enjoyed the extremely bizarre setting with equally strange characters who lived in a world the author made believable and I really can not imagine how this book won a Hugo.

I really enjoy science fiction and alternate universes, but I just could not get into this book and I was intrigued by the concept, two cities essentially overlapping in time and space, citizens prohibited from passing between them or from even acknowledging the existence of the other. But I found the voice of a narrator to be annoyingly pseudo hard boiled, and the language stilted. Had a hard time keeping track of the characters, and finally realized that I just did not care about any of them.

Really neat idea for a story, but if you asked me to describe the main character I could not do it. Beyond a couple describers that are given, you are free to imagine him as a robot or a pillow and you do not know anything about him as a person. Needless to say, character development is severely lacking so the whole thing falls flat. If I had not looked it up, I would have guessed that the first language of the author is not English because there are some really odd and convoluted sentences that barely make sense. I started out intrigued with the plot or setting, but it was incredibly difficult to finish. I just did not care, the only reason I did finish was because I do not like to start a book without finishing.

I have thoroughly enjoyed the China books I have read before and was actively looking for one I had not read when I ordered this. The basic premise is that one physical city has been divided into two political cities where the citizens of each are banned by law, under penalty of death, from recognizing, acknowledging, interacting with, or seeing the citizens, cars, buildings, or landmarks of the other, is more than a bit contrived and forced at the outset. By half way through this book, it was intensely annoying, so much so that, if there is a clever twist or denouement at the end, I will never read it.

I can not remember the last time I abandoned a book, but after struggling through fifty pages I threw in the towel and my wife was tougher and she did seventy pages. Obviously there is a segment of the population that understands this, but the use of English words with a new meaning left me confused. Perhaps if the author had supplied a revised dictionary to accompany the book, I could have made sense of what he was saying, but as it is the words made no sense at all.

I get the hard boiled inspector, and the parallel cities premise, the concept of unseeing, the notion of some in between zone and all that. But the book was just too boring, overly complicated, and the constant banging on the science fiction bomb was pointless and seemed to compensate for a lack of quality writing. I tried hard to find some kind of allegory here with the modern world, alienation, the unknowable other, but even as I staggered to the end and I did finish, I just did not care anymore about all that. I really cared a lot more that I took precious time away from reading something way better, like anything by Jose Saramago, for instance, do not think this is worth your time either.

At the border of two countries, two cities in two different dimensions occupy the same place. A cop in one city must investigate the murder of a girl committed in the other and fringe Division ensues. This book has an amazing imagination and great skill in world building, but I find the stories he tells in them slow and dull, with uninteresting characters and unsurprising surprises. I did not bother checking the Copywrite date, but regardless of which actually came first, this book does suffer from its similarities to the fringe TV show.