#97. Ringworld: A Novel
#Larry Niven
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Ringworld-Novel-Larry-Niven/dp/0345333926/ref=sr_1_48?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-48

My biggest complaint is that there is no information on the order of the series and both series are interconnected and a continuous story. Frankly, if each is taken as a separate story, I would not rate it as high, however if the series is read in order, the character development is excellent and the back stories that are hinted at in each succeeding book, are understood by the reader, making the stories much more enjoyable. However, the advantage of this process for the author is that you end up purchasing all the books and then trying to figure out what the order should be by reading a chapter or two. Granted that the Fleet of Worlds series do have indicators as to Book one through Book five. However, the Book five, Fate of Worlds, really requires reading all of the Ringworld series to be best appreciated.

Look, this is by far one of the best scientific fiction books ever, the book was published in October 1970, so it was written prior to the old times. It has by far one of the most originals ideas about a foreign world and grandiosity of engineering accomplishments, such is that this book generated a trilogy, due to its amazing story line. Some people do not like the book, I agree some parts seems to be over the place, however, the general idea and the narrative about Ringworld is captivating and fascinating. You will start depicting as you read and this effect of this book and it story line is what makes it so unique for me.

This book is a classic and the reason will become apparent as you progress through the plot, not only is it a science fiction novel, the basic precept of the novel, The Ring World, itself has peaked the imagination of theoretical scientists all over the world. The characters are well developed and complex and the main characters, two aliens and two humans are played against each other which makes for a fast paced and interesting read. I will not elaborate on the plot any further as it will ruin it for you but I will say this, the author has said he has completed the story to the end, however, there is plenty of room for an exciting sequel for which I would stand in line to get as copy.

The entire time I was reading this book I kept thinking to myself what an intriguing concept. It is just interesting and so very different from most science fiction books I have read before. The author really handles alien concepts in an alien way. At times you will relate or understand but more often you just go interesting. I really enjoyed it but it took me a little while to truly get engrossed in it, probably because of how unique and alien the ideas in it are and I highly recommend it just for the experience of it.

Outstanding book and even better than the original in my opinion and the plot makes sense and the twist in the end is interesting. The author is not the best writer out there, but his ideas are outstanding. Hard science fiction is hard to come by and this one is a classic. Well worth a read, now, unfortunately, I can not say that for the two following novels in the Ringworld saga, but another series kinda makes up for it. I have dreamed of what it would be like to live on the Ringworld and Engineers comes as close as I can think.

I am enjoying reading this book and I read some of this author years ago, and remember liking the books I read and this one is dated somewhat but It does not bother me and I am not judging on literally styles or the changes in social norms. We talked and behaved somewhat different back thirty years ago when this book was published. If you are put off by the way males and females used to be portrayed in conversation or relationships, you may not love this book. It is a light, easy read bonus and I love pointing out to my kids the idea for a Ring in a science fiction setting is not an original idea to the game Halo, does that make me a bad person.

Overall I enjoyed this book enough to give it five stars and the rapport between the characters was entertaining, and the concepts were extremely imaginative and mind blowing. But there is something that just feels hollow and synthetic about the story and it seemed to be somewhat too self aware and lacked an emotional core. Also, some of the descriptions were quite difficult to imagine, and the action was consequently hard to follow at times, but the overall scope and concepts involved is enough to recommend it to others.

I somehow made my side splits writing this but do not remove since this is a genuine review. The book is also pretty good that the storytelling of this author feels a little, even a lot, stretched sometime, and his characters can be pretty okay. But nonetheless filled with imaginative landscapes, cities, lost alien races, discoveries about the source of humanity, and sex with almost every single alien female we meet in this book. Kids, this is not how it works in the real world though this is science fiction, after all.

I read Ringworld when it was first published in hardback and the awe and majesty, along with the masterful creation of four characters that, through all these years, I have never forgotten. It was with great excitement that I saw Amazon had a Kindle version of this masterpiece for sale. After years of forgoing science fiction for more contemporary books, I was transported back to the old times and all the wonders of Ringword.

Although it was not as sleep inducing as War of the Worlds it is still excessively dry, overall the book is not bad, but I can not recommend an audible version if you are going to be driving while listening to it. Also, some of the science of the book has not held up well over the decades, hardly surprising considering how few science fiction works have not had the problem, but it does create some jarring moments of reality.