#98. The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)
#Neal Stephenson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Diamond-Age-Illustrated-Primer-Spectra/dp/0553380966/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8

This started so well and I loved the interesting new world and many of the characters, but hated the ending, which was not an ending. The book builds this complex world filled with complex character then jettisons many of the characters abruptly for no reason. Miranda starts as an interesting person then ends as a limp character in a stage with a chunk missing about why it had to be her. The sections with the drummers were awful back to using the bodies of women for the pleasure of men, except that they catch on fire, willingly or drugged, how banal. Overall, I was hugely disappointed and I kept reading, hoping it would get better but it did not and then it just ended as if the author was bored with the story. Was there even a plot line to follow and was there an editor involved at all.

I found the start a bit slow, but hung on hoping for a payoff and it did payoff and was satisfying in the end. I am still putting the story together in my mind so in that way it is thought provoking. There are aspects of the story I wish were clearer, would I read it again and the answer is yes, but I would read it differently. It requires concentration on the story line which does not lend itself to extended time between reading and lots of small reading sessions, better said, best read in long sittings closely grouped together.

Stephenson was recommended by a friend, so I picked up this book and I will keep the review short because it is not worth a longer one. While he does a good job of offering a glimpse into the tech of the future, he babbles on and on and on far more than necessary. The book bounces around like crazy and most of the time I was left wondering who the main character was, what the plot was and why I should care. I powered through the book and it was not an easy task. If not for the nice depictions of future tech, I would have only given it one star and I will go grab some more Asimov and leave this author behind forever.

Not coming anywhere close to being as good as the masterpiece Snow Crash nor the excellent Cryptonomicon of Stephenson. This is a book that is filled with some great ideas that never come together as a decent book. Stephenson frequently seems like he is completely uninterested in telling a good or even readable story, and is more concerned with sounding clever or urbane, wizened on eastern culture. There are not any characters here worth caring about, there is a world that is too complex to bother paying attention to, and a climax that is intense but seems to come out of a separate book.

I started reading Neal Stephenson with Cryptonomicon, read forward through The Baroque Cycle. Having run out of new material, I went back to read some of earlier work of this author. Clearly, the cool ideas and strange connections I love have been there all along, but the craft of plot and character of the writer needed to develop. Diamond Age is a collection of interesting ideas played out by sketchbook characters swimming in story soup that never really tightens up into a coherent plot and better than your average pulp but not as good as the later work of Stephenson.

This is my least favorite Neal Stephenson book, but even a second rate Stephenson book bears some fascinating ideas. In the book, an ultra high technology manual for young ladies is created for the richest of grand daughters, and stolen for the tech from the daughter of the writer. Along the way, the poorest of the poor receives a copy and I did not enjoy the tracts of the writing of the manual, but these are easily enough to skip. The views of the futuristic China and the various clans designated to contain the world, we are breathtaking. I am a sucker for a trip to another world and Stephenson does this the best.

Two of my sons keep recommending Stephenson and I have now read about four of his books and the highest rating on any of those is okay, yet the others, including Diamond Age are below that and for me, his work just does not flow. It is like work and the end results are not worth the effort and there are probably several pretty good stories embedded in Diamond Age but final product is with less story line. Unless you are one of my sons, do not bother with Stephanson since there are too many good authors out there.

I barely, just barely, managed to finish this book, but since I did, I will give it three stars and the book is divided into two parts, each approximately one half of the whole. If I could award two different ratings to those two halves, I would give five stars to the first and one star to the second. The reading experience went from one that could be described as a real page turner to one in which I found myself skipping entire paragraphs at a time to one in which I literally had to force myself to finish, as if it were required reading for a college class. The last quarter of the novel was about as enjoyable as the final five miles of a marathon, painful to the point of collapse, with every nerve in your body screaming to just give it up, but after making it that far you would feel foolish for not getting to the finish line, so I did, not recommended at all.

Why do some authors feel they have to put in extra made up words, phrases, and so on, that they then do not define and you have to figure out the meaning from context, or not. If you like hard to read, slow going books, this is for you, otherwise, avoid it like the plague. The whole idea of the book is intriguing, but the editor, not to mention the author, should be shot for making the reader slog through pages and pages of dense techno babble that the author completely made up for his future staged book. Even if I could forgive that, the story jumps around a lot, and is very slow and I can see how it may all come together at some point all the stories of characters but dang, it takes this author forever to get there, so long, in fact, I simply gave up. It just was not entertaining at all, and I read all the time. My husband says I will read anything, well not this and I finally decided it was not worth my time, and stopped one hundred or so pages in.

It is interesting to see the take of the author on a future with nanotechnology, and the plot appears to have promise at the beginning, but it becomes too convoluted and forced. What started off as an interesting premise ends in the poor execution of a story line that starts to push the limits of my ability to suspend disbelief, particularly the story surrounding the Drummers, where the main character is taken prisoner for years and becomes part of some kind of collective consciousness supercomputer and becomes quite boring as the author tries to be didactic. A large amount of space is spent in a seeming effort to educate the reader on the basic concepts of programming and that different systems can be logically equivalent, even though implemented on different hardware and with a different language like what he really wants you to get out of this book is an understanding of a Turing Machine, so much time spent on this that it is almost bizarre. The plot ends up feels very jumbled and contrived, and the ending is a disappointment.