I was very happy that I purchased the hardcover version which made it easier to keep track. The main character is a very different character but I grew fond of her and enjoyed her unique story and the references to events in the other book. This is a different story with a different kind of pacing. She interacted with many characters familiar from Greek mythology and some of her actions caused her banishment to an island by her father. This book was stunningly good. It is not usual to find a book told from a woman point of view as this one is. Her thoughts, her feelings, her time, are so compellingly expressed, with imagery that is compellingly beautiful. It is not like the book or author are in dire need of recognition since I believe many publications have already praised both. The best I can say is believe the hype. It is to author credit that most of the people and events in the book, including ones I would never heard of, in fact do appear in the mythology, though not necessarily all together in the same story. It is creative, intellectually stimulating, well written, vivid, and engaging. I really enjoyed considering the events of through a female viewpoint. Exploration of what it might have been like to live as a Greek goddess was quite intriguing. I found approach of author, slow and drawn out, soothing and a comfortable read. The action felt somewhat muddled but the characterization is spot on and the depiction of her characters will sadden you several times over. Without a doubt, one of the best books I have read this year. Vivid characters, deeply flawed but ultimately human, even when they are Gods, descriptions that bring the scenery to life, and well nuanced relationships make this a book that is impossible to put down. I felt like this book was a familiar friend to me. I also enjoyed the large cast that surrounded Circe, particularly at the beginning of the book. The pacing was breakneck, and I was immediately transfixed. Highly recommend it. This book is even better than Song of Achilles is also an incredible book, but this one is even better, as the author honed her craft even more deeply than she presented in Song of Achilles. It was very difficult to put down, and I swallowed it whole. I have not been so drawn into the world created by a book in a very long time.