#100. The Emperor's Soul (Hugo Award Winner - Best Novella)
#Brandon Sanderson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Emperors-Soul-Hugo-Award-Winner/dp/1616960922/ref=sr_1_58?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632694&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-58

The book itself is excellent and I cannot agree more with all the other reviewers and the only thing is that this book, or rather story, was a perfect platform to steer a bit away from typical Sanderson and explore a more Robin Hobb kind of style. He could have easily made this into a full length novel where the main character goes deeply into the psychological profile of the king she is trying to save. From there, he could have easily branched out into so many sub plots that made the king who he was.

I was a big Robert Jordan fan and so naturally fell into the work of Brandon and really love it especially Elantris. The the Soul of Emperor is a good compelling story pulling you along with that awesome need to know what is going to happen next. However that being said the other thing I was looking for page after page was Elantris and sadly not even a reference was made not to that fantastic place nor to any of the characters or groups from the previous novel. In that I am disappointed as there is so much potential in Elantris and where he can take it.

Of the three Sanderson books I have read, this one ranks third, Elantris second, with the Mistborn trilogy ranking a heavy first. Love his work, style and attention to detail and The Soul of Emperors is quite straight forward and pretty predictable but an easy, quick and very enjoyable read. Would still recommend it to someone looking to pass the time and but not necessarily someone looking for a moving, soul changing novel. Again, a good and short read. If you are not sure, just start it, it will not take you long to figure out if you love it it not.

Shai is caught replicating the Moon scepter and she now faces a choice to be put to death for practicing illegal forging, or to forge a new soul for the Emperor. To survive, Shai must do the impossible and I thoroughly enjoyed the book and it is well written and Shai is a great character. The one problem I had was, I just wanted more and it is like getting a taste of an interesting story, but only have access to one of the chapters. You just felt like there was a bigger novel in there and I for one wanted to live longer in the head of Shai and I would recommend this book, as the story is really fun and its a very interesting world, but be prepared to have it end with you wishing for more.

Thought the concept was alright, but did not quite get the changing somethings history thing. Surely changing an items history would cause other items history as well. Like a window that got smashed because a rock was thrown at it to change its history so it was stronger means the rock would not have gone through in the first place. Would have been interesting to see situations like that unfold and think Homer going back in time and sneezing on the dinosaurs causing the future to rain doughnuts.

I love the magical worlds of Brandon Sanderson since he has made some fascinating, interesting, and thoughtful magic. This book had that kind of magic but the story itself was just not there for me and it moved too slowly at first so that I put it away for more interesting reading until I had some extra time. When I got back to the book, it contained unexplained reactions from characters and then just ended without letting the reader know if anything that happened really made a difference. However, if you want to read the book just to see a wizard of an author come up with another type of fascinating magic, then you would probably enjoy it.

This is yet another short Novella of my favorite author and it takes a single idea and runs with it. The idea of taking objects and rewriting their histories and imagine your mom yelling Lincoln your room is a disaster, then you take the magic of this book and rewrite the history of your room so its spotless. This book asks the question if you can change the history of an object can you do the same with a soul. I did not get the vibe that Sanderson was trying to ask some moral question here just going hog wild with a cool magical idea. I wonder what goes on in his head when he thinks up magics that do not have any logic in them at all. He always bases them in something that is why even when its illogical to rewrite the history of an object is illogical he explains it to you so you are okay with it. I only gave this book two stars because it was slow and I anticipated this title mainly because it takes place in the universe of Elantris another Brandon Sanderson book but the crossover was not there as I anticipated and the story dragged. I became more interested in the main character fixing up her surroundings instead of escaping from peril, not a bad book just not a good book.

This was a good book, not a great book, but a good book and I think I would have ranked this book much more highly had it not been for the first chapter. The writing in that chapter, and only that chapter, was clumsy and awkward, and if I had not known Sanderson could do better I might have put it down right there. The writing was cliched and grimly obvious in the way it set up the story and I feel as if Sanderson, trying to cram an entire the worth of exposition of and world building into a single chapter, came up with this. It did the rest of the story a disservice. It felt rushed to press and it was a disservice, because the rest of the story was great and I was thoroughly engaged in the characters, and finished the book wishing I could spend longer in this world. The magic system was enthralling, and it has so much potential for future stories that I can only cross my fingers and pray that we will get to revisit it later. Seriously, it is that good, but when I inevitably reread the story, I will skip that first chapter, here is a recommendation that for fans of other work of this author, but probably not the best introduction to him or his style.

So this was enjoyable and I enjoyed the concept, even if I found it a little shaky and I liked the character and the set up. Who does not like a good goal break story, but the ending was disappointing and I like short stories but they are very hard to write because the ending needs to be really punchy. This one just felt unfinished, like there was an epilogue that revealed the twist that was just left off. I am kind of glad I bought it because the concept was great but if I can get this and the amazing novel Blood Song of Anthony Ryan for the same price, I feel like I am getting ripped off.

I am a sucker for great cover art and this one pulled me right in, unfortunately the story itself is just not very fulfilling and feels like a badgering moral tale. One of the reasons I fell away from fantasy is because of the over abundance of unpronounceable, forgettable names. That tradition runs deep here and it makes an already read all the more laborious for it and I think I will wait out the next one. Two out of five stars mostly because it was not terribly expensive and struck me as a good value at the time, but for an afternoon read, I would have preferred to have spent my time with other tales.