#101. Before I Fall Enhanced Edition
#Lauren Oliver
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Before-Fall-Enhanced-Lauren-Oliver/product-reviews/0061726818/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This book was a lot better than I thought it would be. I went in with extremely low expectations, reading it only because it happened to be the book club pick in my reading group. Somehow though, it ended up being, so far anyway, one of my favorite reads of the year. Sam was an unlikable heroine at first but as we watched her relive the same day over and over, we also got to watch her grow. Her arc was honestly one of the best I have seen in a good while, transforming her from an arrogant, selfish person into someone who just wanted to love, someone hopeful yet unafraid of death. And while I do not think I will ever relate immensely to the people in her friend group since I do appreciate how it shows just how flawed we all are. All of these characters are such real depictions of teenagers and remind me how it was to be in those shoes. I would recommend this book to anyone and have already told my sister to pick it up and I am definitely going to read more of what Lauren Oliver has to offer.

Loved, loved, loved this book and I could not put it down. There are some great lessons to be learned here and also a beautifully written, captivating story line. And for reference, I am a married, thirty five year old mom of two. However, having said that, I need a sequel, or a continuing novella, kind of short story or something else. The finish of this story left me with a bit of whiplash at how quickly it just dropped off and was over. I was so involved in the world of Sam Kingston, so invested in her character and her personal growth and her ever changing perspective of her life and the people in it, which is the mark of a great author, if you ask me, and then it was done in an instant with no wrap up. For me, this did not take away from the story, even knowing the ending, I would definitely still have read the book. But I do want to see Sam and all her friends and family in a more settled place. And then I would feel better about putting this book down and leaving world of Sam behind.

This book took me personally a while to get into. I was enjoying the writing style but honestly hated the characters. They all seemed like spoiled, rich, high scholars with no consideration for anyone but themselves. However, over time I fell in love with the main character as she started realizing things about life and what is really important. Eventually I could not put this book down, it was such a great read and definitely kept me engaged and I would highly recommend this book.

I am so glad I have read this book before I saw this movie. This book was so good that I could not put it down. Reading before I fall has shown me a new view on what it means to live, as well as how it means to die. It also made me think of ground hogs day, the movie if you did not know, but more morbid since she ends up dying. I loved all of the characters and especially the backgrounds given. Although I did not like Rob, I thought he was a huge tool, so glad that she dumped him in the end because I mean their relationship was total crap. Again, I will say that this book was amazing and if you have not read it then you need to, like right now.

I love this book. I have read it twice. It is a teen or young adult fiction book, but the writing is such that it sparks memories of being in that age group. Sam is a girl who went through the unpopular stage and is now with the popular group. At the top of the food chain, she revels in being popular, envied and known. Inside is a shadow of the kind girl she used to be, but it is lost amid the power trip from being with the in crowd. When Sam wakes one morning and realizes that she is no longer alive, but somehow still here, the realization brings a host of feelings and confusion as she tries to navigate what is going on. Her current state causes her to rethink things and notice details that she previously had never given a second thought to. When she can tell that things are going terribly wrong, she wakes up again to the same scenario. Sam comes to the realization that she needs to do things differently to get it right. What the outcome is going to be is a mystery, but she is compelled by her new awareness to fix things she thinks are wrong. What follows is a groundhog day theme with a growing realization of the details of your life and a reminder to notice them all. I thought the writer did an excellent job with spoon feeding the details to make the reader as smart as Sam is becoming.

It takes you back to high school where the most important thing was to be popular and you did not think about consequences. Who has not been mean to someone and the regrets you have in your life. Sometimes I was the mean girl and then their was my nemesis who made fun of me and made my life miserable, either way everyone can relate to this book. But what I love about it is she got the chance to learn from her mistakes. She learned to accept people and understand them including herself, very good writing, I loved it.

I really enjoyed this book once I got passed the first few sections. I was so annoyed by the characters and how much they reminded me of those girls from high school. I was very close to putting it down, but I hate not finishing a book. Surprisingly I found myself not wanting to put it down and reflecting on my own life wondering about the little things I take for granted such as smells, sounds, touches, well you get the picture. I was hoping the end would be different but understood there could not be another ending. I just wish there could have been a glimpse of how the other characters dealt with the situation. It is sad to know that maybe everything continued as it had always been except for Kent and Juliet.

This book was well described as a cross between Groundhog Day and Mean Girls. The Mean Girls in it are harsh, but I suppose they could be worse. Groundhogs Day was a good movie, but this story ripped the heart out of me. As Sam moves along through the book, I now understand that the changes she makes each day are those we make as we mature. Truly seeing things, not letting the days pass idly by. None of it was predictable, and not the end either. I feel Lauren Oliver completely got high school in this book. The characters, the players, the why is or lack thereof for our behavior. This is a book I simply had to finish because when I was not reading it, I was trying to figure out what came next. Excellent story, hard to read in many ways, but excellent.

First, I am not a teen and I am a forty one year old stay at home mom. That said, this was the most amazing, touching, heart wrenching novel I have ever read and I have read thousands. I read it at stop lights, I read it in bed in the dark, my husband rolling over to ask why I was sobbing. This novel has changed my perspective on life. That is no small thing and it has changed the way I view my life, my moments with my twin six year old boys and I am almost scared to read another Oliver novel because I am not sure how she could ever write something this good twice. I recommend it highly and without reservation, the rest. You have to find out for yourself, bravo.

I read the first few pages of this book and thought I had finally gone too far in my recent run of your novels. The characters seemed just a little bit too high school and I found myself thinking about how my daughter, who is currently an infant, is never, ever driving with her teenage friends rather than identifying with the characters. Actually, I was hoping she skips the teenage years altogether. But I am so glad I kept going, because this is actually a very well crafted novel that deals with a lot of interesting issues surrounding life and death. Yes, it is aimed at a crowd, but I do not think they are the only readers who will enjoy it. It is well written and thought provoking and the narrator is very well developed and grows nicely with the story. I really recommend this book and it has stuck with me.