#103. The Cinder Spires: The Aeronaut's Windlass
#Jim Butcher
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Cinder-Spires-Aeronauts-Windlass/dp/0451466810/ref=sr_1_63?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632694&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-63

I have waited a long time for this book, and I was not disappointing. The story took place in a very interesting world and was unlike any other science fiction book that I have read. While I rate this five stars with no reservations, I do hope that the world is further explained in future books. I cared very much for the characters that were introduced and fleshed out, but the spire and the politics surrounding it seemed a little shallow. The few mentions of the dangerous surface were enough to peak my interest, and I found myself hoping that the Predator would be stranded there. I am very much looking forward to what is in store in book two, and will order as soon as it is available.

This is another great Jim Butcher series. Like his other series, this book is well written and humorous. The characters have clearly distinct personalities and are believable. I first read butcher when I picked up the Dresden Files. I really liked the characters and the way that series was written. I then moved on to his now complete Codex Alera, which he basically wrote on a dare and it was as good or better, since my usual reading choices are fantasy. So I really do recommend you give this book a try and I think you will love it. So far, this book seems to be the one most appropriate for any age to read as well. Where there are plenty of adult themes in Dresden and a couple of instances in Codex Alera, I did not see anything anyone would find inappropriate to read to a child of any age, so I think that while any adult will love it, you could get your kids in on this one as well. Also, as a bonus to some, this series is pro cat, and in a very funny way.

I like steam punk but I have been having a hard time finding original plots and well drawn characters in most of the steam punk books I have read. The author has provided both and more in this book and I love the sense of humor of this author, ability to create original characters set in a wonderful world created in the head of Butcher. An added bonus in this books is that the women are not weak damsels in distress that need to be saved by the big strong man. Nope, in the worlds built by Butcher, the women are just as smart, and just as tough, and just as capable of getting themselves into a big mess as the men. This book is long but never boring and a great adventure from beginning to end and I look forward to reading and buying each and every book in this new, hopefully long, series.

So, who can make the famous wizard investigator Harry Dresden of the Dresden files, a veteran of 15 novels, feel like he is past his prime and ready to retire, well, Jim Butcher himself, of course. This reviewer cannot add a lot to the rave reviews about the Windlass of Aeronaut and has actually completed his butcher routine, determined to purchase everything Jim Butcher writes on faith and faith alone. The Windlass of Aeronaut is steam punk on steroids, full of remarkable good guys, villains and airships. What is absolutely promising about the potential of this series is that although the first installment is absolutely fulfilling, so little has been revealed about these wonderful spires, the planet and the history of this imaginary world, that we can only expect the next books to explain and entertain again and again. Grab a seat, the sky is not the limit for airships and Cinder Spires series of Jim Butcher.

If you are a big fan of the Dresden Files, as I am, you will not find this very much like that series, except for the excellent storytelling. If you really love the books in the Furies series, which I do, you will not find this much like that series either, again except for the excellent storytelling. This book introduces a new, steam punk style setting and a big new cast of interesting characters. As what is obviously intended to be the first book of a series, it does not any of their stories and it is not a five the way a great stand alone novel can be a five but it is very, very good. Some of it is reminiscent of the Hornblower novels and there is some resemblance to things that Dianne Duane wrote and those are good things. The tech did not strike me as all that compelling but there is this character named Rowl.

I was a little concerned when Jim announced he was stepping away from the urban fantasy of the Dresden Files for another detour into the realm of epic fantasy. His Codex Alera series was good, but not epic, and I found myself a little disappointed. Also, I am anything but a steam punk fan, and was rather gun shy about that aspect. Needless to say, I was skeptical about how this new enterprise might go. It went like the wind and I was sucked into the maelstrom from the moment I read the first word. I found the cinder spires a fascinating world, with a unique culture, with a great deal of opportunity for it to become quite rich and full. It is impossible to reveal a fully developed world creation in a single book, or it should be, anyway. I have new hope that I will love this series with as much fervor as I feel toward the exploits of Harry Dresden and company, good job.

Although I am a fan of Dresden books and this book was hard to put down, yet I did not care for the Fury books at all, so I had no idea what to expect here. The action is almost cover to cover, the characters are likable, including the cats, and well developed with amusing quirks and strengths, and the action was surprisingly well choreographed. I am looking forward to the next book in the series. It dose not have the same feel as either the Dresden or Furies books, so expect to be surprised. He has created a very interesting world to explore, and left plenty of things to discover in future novels, though this one has good closure as far as it goes, which is pretty far to the end. Quite an adventure, a blend of fantasy and light science fiction, with a very slight nod of the head to the steam punk genre.

Why did I wait so long to read this, this is a very different book, and a vastly different world than any of the Dresden Files. I read a lot and I am honestly not sure I would have recognized Butcher as the writer without his name on it, despite having read all of the Dresden books. There are a good half dozen major and minor characters introduced in rapid fire in this book and Butcher handles it all masterfully. The characters are fun and the world is internally consistent, and it manages to be both good steam punk and good action, which is not often true. I look forward to future books in this series as much as I do the next Dresden book.

The book was excellent, and my only, slight, complaint was that the Butcher did not spend a lot of time explaining things early on so readers were left to discover the how is and why is of a very intricate world without any real guidance. You were told what crystals are and how they work, how the Spires were governed, that the surface was dangerous, but only as the story needed that information leaving the reader a bit under informed in the beginning, but do not worry since all becomes clear and the story never pauses in its high energy pace. I can not wait for the next book, but only after Peace Talks please.

Like the Furies of Calderon, Butcher once again does a wonderful job of world building and creating memorable and wonderful characters. This is a great start to the series and the world is generally steam punk but with a novel and interesting magic and technology system and terrific battles between airships that blend the best of naval encounters and those of the star ship Enterprise. The characters are generally very plucky and the Victorian social setting allows for some gratifying humor. Finally, for cat lovers out there, this book will be a must, if only to enjoy the company of the noble, loyal, and proud Prince Rowl, kit of Maul, a terrific and adorable feat of feline characterization.