#107. Captivated by You: A Crossfire Novel
#Sylvia Day
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Captivated-You-Crossfire-Sylvia-Day/dp/1405916400/ref=sr_1_74?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556636301&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-74

This is the fourth book in a five book series and its great. Gideon and Eva are madly in love, newly married, and still getting to know one another. Gideon is a billionaire alpha male who likes control. Eva is a hard working survivor, new to New York, and maybe to swept up in Gideon. She wants equality in their marriage and communication that has been lacking up till now. You will lose the connection and emotion of the characters and the couple if you do not read the first three books before this one. I really enjoy this series its well written, has a drama filled story line, and lots of steamy scenes. It does have a lot of similarity to Fifty Shades of Grey but still worth the read and the cost, enjoy.

Book four in the Crossfire series is just want I have been waiting for. We have been inside the head of Eva and now it is time to truly get to know and understand Gideon who just so happens to be my favorite book husband. This story is beautifully written and it will help readers to understand and fall in love with Gideon even more. I love getting to see him interacting with his friends because it showed that there is more to him then just his business and Eva. There is a chapter where he shows how much he truly loves Eva, how much he is willing to sacrifice, and how vulnerable he is in terms of his love for her. This chapter will melt your heart and make you cry. In this book, we learn of new threats and relationship challenges. However, there is also love, personal growth, and maturity. While I have loved every book in this series, this is one of the ones that will stick with me because finally Gideon and Eva are getting on the same page.

I am going to admit here that while I love this couple, the drama was a bit much by this point. We are on book four and the drama just keeps coming. We had some good revelations in this book and some closure to some issues, but then we have new issues popping up as well. I love this couple and I am loving this series. All these issues does show growth in their relationship and how they deal with interference so I get why the author has taken this path. However, I am ready to get to them just being a couple that is happy and getting settled into their lives together. I really hope that is what we will get with the next and final book.

I read this series because I am vested in the characters. There are some series out there that could have been just as good with one or two books, but this is not the one of them. I do not feel that every book in a series needs to be explosive and have huge twists and turns to capture the reader and I think the characters do that. Eva and Gideon along with everyone else are great characters, therefore they bring forth a great story. I will continue to look forward to the evolution of the Crossfire series. I will be an avid watcher of the series when it comes to TV just as I am the avid reader when it comes to the books. Sylvia has done a great job on developing these characters and I believe that there is so much more to Gideon. I just hope that we will get to see the new and improved nightmare free version.

I took my time reading this installment in the crossfire series for two reasons. Firstly, the series finale installment does not release until April and I did not realize they were not all released when I started this series. Secondly, in terms of the reviews, many people commented on how this installment was unnecessary and that the plot points were annoying fillers. As I read, I kept wondering when I would come across those pointless plot points. And then I reached the end of the book. To me, this was a great installment, and it covered necessary steps in the overall series arch. Now, I have to wait two months until one with you, the final installment, releases.

Please do not read this review if you have not read the other books in the series. This book picks up after Eva and Gideon elope. The couple announces their engagement to the public and begins to plan their wedding. keeping a secret that they are already married. Gideon is still just as jealous and controlling as all the other books, but is not that the reason why we love him. I noticed that other reviewers complained that the couple is in therapy. When did they ever stop, they both clearly have major emotional and physical issues, so I do not see why they would not need individual and couples therapy, so no complaints from me. I also read that every other page was a sex scene, first of all that is quite exaggerated, and second, did you read the other books, is it why you love them. I understand there was a long wait between books, I get it, but this was worth the wait for me. I can not wait to see where the story continues to in the next book.

Just finish reading and was upset when I turn the page only to find the book has come to an end and another book is next. Look I am an avid reader and I run through books weekly so to hear that I will have to wait until book five is release does not sit well. I had to read book three over because I forgot about the characters and where we left off. I just can not pick up months later on a to be continue book when I just finish reading similar books by other authors. I enjoy reading about Eva and Gideon and I believe this book was dragged quite a bit especially now knowing she is writing another one. A lot of drama unfold in this book which kept my attention however I am still disappointed. I am ready to move on with these characters I hate having to come back and regroup in order to start another book. Overall good book just dislike how it is being dragged out, just finish already.

The latest installment of this series was a long time coming, but definitely worth the wait. Her descriptive, erotic scenes more than made up for the almost painful anticipation I went through before finally getting the book. The love of the two characters really comes through, so it is not just sex for no purpose other than to be erotic, very meaningful. I will say that it really helped me to go back and reread the first three books in this series right before this one came out. I think a lot of the negative reviews may have been because people did not like that what was supposed to originally be a trilogy has turned into a five book series. Personally, I understand the need of a writer is to follow where the characters and story lead her. It makes the story much richer in the end. This installment is like a very rich interlude in the middle of the story, part of the development of the action, but not including the main finish. However, it also had the feel of a complete story within itself but with more development possible. I enjoyed it immensely and look forward with bated breath to the final book.

I am going to start out by saying I love the Crossfire books and am always counting down until the next one comes out. However, after saying that I will say that this one was not as good as the others, but it was okay, and it will not stop me from waiting for the next one. To be truthful there was just way to much drama in this one I could keep up. I loved that they come so far, but then it seems like they took ten steps back. I love reading it from the point of view of Gibson, but that is about Gibson other than the little parts here and there where they were happy and in love, which was not very often. I still think that people who like these books should still read it, and even though it was not my favorite, I still can not wait to see what happens next, but I will say that if it takes another year for the next book that I can see myself forgetting about it because there are just too many books out there to read. But if you love Sylvia Day and the crossfire books then you should read it even if it takes you some time to get into because so much happens if you do not read it, you will be lost when the next one comes out.

Still captivated by Eva and Gideon, not the best so far but still a good read. Cheering for these two all the way, I think people forget that this all happening in a very short time frame, great strides are happening in a short amount of time so do not be a hater, I think Ms Day will get us there, we just need to be patient. No spoilers but I wish the stories had more background or depth to the characters. There were so many hints in Entwined with you that I expected more in this one but still hopeful for the next one. I admit to feelings of anxiety before starting this book because I do not want the story to end until everything happens, the big wedding, the dad of Eva to find happiness, Cary to get it together and have his happy ever after, couples therapy to work. And of course the sex is hot, but no one does it better than Eva and Gideon and I am looking forward to the next one.