#108. To Say Nothing of the Dog
#Connie Willis
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Say-Nothing-Dog-Connie-Willis/dp/0553575384/ref=sr_1_75?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556636301&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-75

It has been so long since I have read a novel that had me laughing out loud. The complexities of time travel, the inefficiency of the bureaucracy involved, the seemingly arbitrary nature of it all, so reminiscent of our actual experiences and yet far more entertaining than a trip. The time traveling main character, exhausted by efforts to satisfy the whims of the compulsion of Lady Schrapnel to recreate a cathedral destroyed during the WWII, finds himself vacationing in Victorian England, something that the reader will find far more enjoyable than he will. I am prepared and confused and he embarks on a series of adventures with some remarkably entertaining characters. Among the more amusing is a time traveling cat, to say nothing of the dog, Cyril, others including Oxford professors, poetry quoting lovers, fishing fanatics, Country House rituals, Victorian decor and manners. All are given some affectionate fun poking in this happy romp of a story. A special treat for Anglophiles, this is clever, light entertainment with some philosophical questions at its heart, as well.

For whatever reason, the genre of time travel seems rife with dumb down prose, so I was ready to be disappointed yet again when the recommendation for this book landed in my email inbox. One page, and I was hooked, this is a labyrinthine, screwball tale about a mission to correct a time line before the discrepancy results in the Nazis winning World War II. But the story get crazier, the writing is intelligent, engaging, and outright hilarious at times. The author creates oddly believable scenarios, considering the subject matter. From start to finish, I was completely immersed.

The title caught my eye, as being the subtitle of classic nineteenth century novel, Three Men in a Boat. Not having encountered the Oxford Time Travel series before, I was delighted to see the interweaving of the nineteenth cent Victorians with rather more cynical twenty first cent academics, both trying to go boating on the Thames and being distracted at every turn. Sent this to a very dear friend and fellow admirer, anyone in that Same Boat will love it.

I found the characters an interesting bunch, and the protagonist is an appealing chap. The time travel setup was interesting and posits an approach toward resolving time travel conflicts that seemed quite novel. At times, the discussion of time slippage can get a little dense, but it does help to set up and then explain some the central mysteries in the book. I did wish Willis could have gotten to the point a little quicker. Early in the book, our protagonist arrives in the Victorian era, meets a chap and they decide to travel by boat. That boat trip takes over one hundred pages and really does little to advance the plot. They pick up a professor along the way, debate the progress of history, find a cat and well, not much else. If the pacing had been a bit tighter, I might have given the book five stars.

Although not a fan of farces, I did enjoy the many literary and historical references so cleverly embedded in this novel. I did realize, after slogging through the multitude of plot convolutions designed to somehow correct history, that perhaps wishing we had done or said something different is a ridiculous waste of time. We can not possibly extrapolate from the point of change to the present time with any hope of accuracy, so why bother. This revelation and the happy romances in this novel made it worth reading, even if it employed too many farcical devices.

This book concerns a historian who is so tired of time travel that he is compelled to take a vacation in Victorian England, not far from Coventry Cathedral, which is what he has been studying. Although most of the story takes place in old times, there is a familiar feel, right down to Lady Schrapnell, who is a twenty first century spiritual descendant. Her monomania in reconstructing the Coventry Cathedral sends our hero on his vacation in time, and threatens to rend the fabric of time and space. The ending feels a bit rushed, like some weddings that I have participated in, but overall, it is fun to read.

This book took me seven years to read, like many I have loved the work of this author. However, when I picked this up I could not hold interest for more than two pages, perhaps style, perhaps subject English waterways or confusing time travel, but I would do a page or two, set aside and read something else. Until a month ago, at my daughter is still with no TV so I pulled it up on my Kindle and decided to force myself through it. First the chapter headings got me, then the dialogue and then the essence of the book itself. It was hilarious, witty, full of mystery and great set pieces with people and animals entering bedrooms and a poor man unable to get a good night sleep. Then it rocketed to a finale which was satisfying and rich. I was able to tour history, involve in a mystery and smile the whole way.

This book has it all, current technology, time travel, history, art, literature, and it is funny in so many ways. At the beginning, I was a little confused because of the juxtaposition of the historical time period and the sophisticated technology and because I was not aware it was science fiction, also reading on a Kindle, I had not read the usual blurbs and advertisements. Nevertheless, the composition is excellent, the plot is delectable, and the imposition of historical and social mores is enlightening. It is a metaphor for life as what if, could have and should have and one is left wondering would things have been different if. I Highly recommended just for the fun of it.

I have no idea how I had missed discovering this author before. This was brilliant, a time traveling mystery that did not even know it was a mystery. With a full cast of engaging characters, and a cat and a dog, twists and turns, and all the best of classic mysteries with a time travel twist or three, this was a fast, enjoyable and rollicking read. I will be finding more works of this author.

Goodness, what a wonderful book, I was not familiar with this authors work so I did not know what to expect. What I got was a delightful book, full of twist and turn that keep you solidly focused on the narrative. A great mystery book that will keep you avidly interested in the conclusion. Add to that the dry but laugh out loud humor and the love story in this book, sprinkled with memorable character and the conversation. One sided of course, the protagonist has with the title character and before you know it, you will fall in love with this book. Be sure to block out some reading time when you start the book because you will want to read as much of it as possible at each sitting or you may want to draw it out just to savor the fun of it. Either way, I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did. I am going to find another book by this writer and hope it is as good as this one.