#109. Spin
#Robert Charles Wilson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Spin-Robert-Charles-Wilson/product-reviews/076534825X/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Spin has a great idea that the Earth is wrapped in a time distortion field that makes the world beyond Earth go by faster than Earth itself. Figuring out the nature of the spin and why it happened is the crux of the book. And, it seems the idea and some plot points were well thought out. I like big ideas, but, the characters are very one dimensional and do not grow over time. The main character, who is a young boy at the beginning of the book, acts in the same way at the start as he does at the end. He does not grow or change in any way. Another main character joins a fanatical cult. Yet, we do not experience what happened to the character that would drive this outcome. There are also people who come and go for no reason other than to further a plot point. You do not feel how these other people change the main characters at all. Towards the end, I started reading faster just because I wanted to pick up the plot points and to see why the spin happened. The fate of the characters did not interest me at all.

Excellent backdrop and many great concepts as the setting for the novel. Sadly, it struck me as a brilliant short story that had been padded out to something the length of War and Peace. Nonetheless, superbly crafted writing and, if you are into Eastenders and, or psychodrama centering on the relationship between childhood friends, then you are in for a treat. If, however, you are in the market for some hard science fiction, prepare to be disappointed. I will not say I actually regret reading it, but I am not entirely sure I found it worth the effort of wading through all the interpersonal drama for the parts I found interesting. I suspect it is one of those polarizing novels where people either love it or hate it. With the utmost respect to the author who demonstrates consummate writing skills, I am in the latter group.

Definitely not a page turner and I started reading this three times before I made it all the way to the end. It contains some fresh ideas, but they are like stars in the sky separated by parsecs of void. The reason why it took the aliens so long to do what they did turned out to be pretty mundane. It is also a stretch to believe that an intelligence that can bend space and time over a period of billions of years did not develop the communication skills, curiosity, and or empathy to at least let the people of earth know what was happening to them, let alone giving them a choice in the action being taken.

This book is filled with really cool ideas but I just did not like how they were presented. There were so many cliff hangers that I thought I was reading a soap opera. I do not like it when a first person story has the narrator hide things that they know from the audience. Even worse is when they act contrary to their nature just so they do not learn information which they would then impart to the reader. I will not give direct examples but there are a couple of occasions where the main character is about to find out something that they really want to know themselves but then put it off for no good reason whatsoever, actually no person would actually do this. By the end of the book when these secrets were revealed I had pretty much lost interest and they were not that earth shattering anyways. Again, there are some really cool concepts and the book is worth the read from that point of view.

I nearly gave up on this several times, but persisted because the promise of a payoff or something worthwhile happening must surely be around the corner. It won a Hugo after all, but nothing happens. The premise is great, but nothing is really done with it. We get secondhand glimpses of the interesting ongoing by a protagonist that does not really grasp them. I just can not bring myself to care about the mundane when the incredible is so close by.

The novel starts our strong and I was loving it for the first half or so of the book, despite a few weak spots. I really like the writing style of Wilson and enjoyed his humor and the characters of this novel. But a little more than half way through the novel starts to lose steam. Slowly at first, but then more and more. The plot starts to unravel and characters began not to ring true as they had in the first half. It seemed to me that Wilson lost inspiration and was not really sure where to take the novel. The last pages are very labored and seem to be thrown together simply to get the novel done. The ending of the novel, and I will say this as delicately as possible, is one of the least satisfying I have ever read. All that said, I do not regret reading the novel, mainly because the first half is mostly good reading. But I will say that in the last seventy pages or so to go I was eager to get to the end so I could start a new book. It was a relief to reach the finish line. At this point, I do not plan to read book two of the trilogy.

The spin, as you can read on the cover, is a mysterious membrane that encloses planet earth, cutting of our view of the stars and planets. That would be weird enough, but the characters soon learn that it plays tricks with the space time continuum as well. Billions of years shoot by outside the Spin, while the denizens of Earth are trapped in a time freeze, aging only a few years. In a review, I remarked that the title was misleading, since it was not about the the story itself. Here, likewise, the reader eventually discovers that the Spin is really a minor character in this book. All the antics of the overbearing father, the alcoholic mother, the struggling genius kid, the long delayed romance, and the weird religious cult have only a tangential relationship to the science fiction part of the story, or sometimes none at all. Indeed, it would not be too hard to rewrite this book as your basic family melodrama with all the science left out.

The writing style is excellent, and I really do not mind the swapping between past or present style of storytelling. But the book is really, really boring. There is little to interest me in the main character, and the supporting characters are not much better. The story has so much potential, but the way in which it is told drags horribly and I finally gave up on it one hundreds pages into the four hundreds page book. I figure if I got a quarter of the way through and was skimming this much hoping for a crumb of plot, not worth it. There is so much potential here, but a lack of actual plot movement kills this one.

I recently received the book, and all books I get I read at least one hundred pages to see if the story captivates me. I know some stories are slow to develop, that is why I give them one hundred pages. Wilson did a fine job at building the character persona, hence the two star rating, but the story was ineffective at best, totally boring at worst. You can have the most interesting character, but if you have a sloppy story, the whole plot will fail. Like Superman, comic fans all love him, but say you put him in May berry with Aunt Bea and Sheriff Andy, well then, it will flop as Superman has nobody to challenge him, but I give this author a grade C for effort.

This is a good, if extremely slow paced, novel and there is not much science in this science fiction book, though. The story is about a brother, a sister and their closest friend, growing up in very unusual times. It is interesting and told well, with good development of the main characters. But the science fiction part is little more than background for most of the book, and then it is wrapped up quickly at the end, as if it were an afterthought. Trust me, I was not looking for a shoot them up, blow them up novel, but the relevance of the science fiction aspect here is truly minimal.