#110. A Noble Masquerade
#Kristi Ann Hunter
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Noble-Masquerade-Kristi-Ann-Hunter/dp/0764214322/ref=sr_1_95?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556636396&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-95

I thoroughly enjoyed the well developed characters and plot. Lady Miranda, fighting against her engrained societal concerns and proper manners, is believable and easy to empathize with. Although readers guess the hidden truths in the plot before the charming protagonist, we are still engaged in watching her discovery process. Unlike some other Regency novels, the ensuing relationship is true to life while the author focuses on maintaining a clean story line. Each of the sumptuous settings throughout the story added to the richness of the world surrounding Lady Miranda, from the rolling English countryside to the busy streets of London to the lavishly decorated country estate of the family. Looking forward to the next one in the series, if you have not found her kindle prequel to this one, you are in for a treat. I read A Lady of Esteem first to avoid spoilers found in this book, I thoroughly enjoyed it.

Miranda was an absolutely awesome main character and Marlow was even cooler, so were all of the other side characters. The only one who I did not like as much was Georgiana, even so, I am still excited to read the book about her, an elegant facade. Also, I am currently reading An Uncommon Courtship, the one about Trent and I really liked Trent and Griffith. There was one scene with them that I just loved and It seemed like something my brothers would do. I laughed so hard and I love the cover and It is amazing, everything about it is great. I am definitely giving it five stars, also, you can guess what rating I am going to give the book, five stars to you, a noble masquerade. This is one of my favorite books, and I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone who likes an adventure and romance story.

This book was unexpectedly funny and entertaining in a way that made it impossible to put it down. The pace is perfect and the story is full of intrigue, mystery and enough romance to melt the heart. In A Noble Masquerade, we follow the journey of Lady Miranda from her estate to London, to a few other surprise whereabouts as she tries to build confidence in herself and discern her hear, which has been weirdly fascinated by her brother valet and a duke to whom she has been writing since her childhood, but without sending the letters and until recently one of those letters is accidentally mailed. And so a constant exchange with a mysterious man who has kept himself away from society starts. I loved the courage and faithfulness to those the author loved. Ryland was a great hero, with his swoon worthy moments and faulty moments that make you want to punch him, something that actually did happen.

I ended up really enjoying this one and I thought it was a little wordy in parts, but overall an enjoyable story. It is my first book by Hunter, but it left me wanting to read more from her. Lady Miranda Hawthorne was a fun heroine to read about. I liked that the story did not play out how I thought it would, had a few twists along the way that kept things interesting. My favorite parts were the scenes with Miranda and Ryland together. I thought it was a little slow when they were apart, but not enough to lessen my enjoyment. And to be fair, I had a lot of other things going on while reading this so that may have affected my reading a bit. I thought it was a good addition to the Regency genre and I think fans of the genre will enjoy it.

I found this book to be quite delightful. I enjoyed the writing style and found myself actually smiling and sometimes laughing aloud as I read. Very light on the religious themes. Did not feel contrived as some Christian lit does. Although we knew from the beginning who the love interests would be I found some things surprising along the way. I actually got to one point in the story and thought it was now time to wrap up the love story and it would all be over, then I realized I was only halfway through the book. There was still a good deal of story to tell with more conflict to be resolved, so that was fun. As far as conflict is concerned, the first half of the story had one set of bad guys that played a prominent role in the plot. But in the second half, that part of the plot becomes secondary and we end up with a new bad guy. They almost could have made this into two books but I am glad they did not.

I own both the kindle and audible book and I no joke read it around three times a month, it never gets old. I am one of those people who always has my nose in a book, I used to say I can not pick a favorite book but now I can. Miranda is one of those ladies where it is hard for her to control her emotions and the man she loves can see her in a way no one else can. He understands that it is hard for her to keep her spitfire temper in check. They always have witty banters and are constantly doing things to throw off the others plan to make them mad. But behind all this plotting they both love each other and in the end there is a very wonderful Happily Ever After. Book two also shows some of their story and I love all the books in this series and would recommend reading all of them.

The eternal struggle to be what your parents and culture expects, versus what circumstances and personality needs. With plenty of adventure, dresses, hairstyles, carriages, titles, and chaste behavior and masculine endeavors, spying, dancing, fighting, as gentlemen. A deft touch as far as Christian references, appropriate for the times. I liked the good characters morality, and the level of the immoral characters was sufficient for their dastardly acts. A sugary treat, more please, I would like to see this on the screen, there is a nice balance of stuffy proper behavior, with plenty of physical comedy, and action.

Could not put this book down and what a masterfully told tale. I adored Ryland, even his name is good, and Miranda kept me entertained but her sister not so much. Loved all of the lady lessons and adored how she could get him so flustered he forgot what he was doing. So many funny scenes, spectacularly written to razor precision and I loved the secondary characters. I have not looked to see sequels yet, but I am hoping Jess will catch the eye Griffith. This book was fast paced, full of great dialogue, the plot was wonderfully executed, and to top it all off, it is a Christian book, without profanity or sex. There was plenty of romantic thoughts and we could tell these two people were smitten, without the back alley filth. Bravo and well done, standing ovation here, going now to see about more from this author.

I loved this novel, especially because it was the audio version. The woman that narrated this story had almost a British accent which added to the overall appeal of the book. To say that the main characters had chemistry would be a major understatement. These two individuals are from the same side of the tracks, but one of them does not know it. Lead astray by lies and deception, their love was almost broken apart at the seams. Luckily, the will of the God and the pureness of their faith in each other helped them to find away to mend the burnt bridges between them. From punches thrown, to mistaken identities, and all the lady like lessons a woman could need. This novel will keep you reading or listening until the very end.

I loved this book and I laughed several times throughout. I never wanted it to end so the length was great. So many events transpire throughout the story. I enjoyed the characters so much, I like being able to see them in several different situations. I also enjoy how the author was able to teach the reader several of the etiquette of being a lady by having the constant advice being included throughout. I can not wait to read more and see who else will have their story told.