#115. Wicked (A Wicked Trilogy) (Volume 1)
#Jennifer L. Armentrout
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Wicked-Trilogy-Jennifer-L-Armentrout/dp/0988982951/ref=sr_1_98?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656997&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-98

As I have said many times, I will read anything that this author writes. This book was an awesome ride into the largely uncharted New Adult Paranormal frontier, and who better to lead the charge. Evil and bloodthirsty were the subjects of this new book, and boy, were they creepy. Our two heroes, Ivy and Ren have quite a job trailing and figuring out who is the big bad behind all the ruckus in New Orleans. Not to mention Ivy and Ren have undeniable and palpable chemistry. As in any good book, there is romance a plenty, but there are also great action scenes and lots of supernatural elements, including a fun side character in the form of a tiny, sassy, winged faerie. Content wise, this is New Adult, so there is some language, some sex, and violence. Not by any means the worst I have read, but it is a step beyond her series, though not as much sex as her Contemporary. All in all a very fun, fast paced, thrilling read that will please any Paranormal Romance fan.

My first time reading a book and it definitely left a good first impression. First off, I love Ivy personality and she do not take any crap from any one and that itself says that Ivy has a dominate personality, which I love by the way. I love how strong hearted of a person she is because she is loyal, almost to a fault. What a yummy character, new to the area, Ren has show that he is compassionate and strong. Physically and mentally, but do not let that fool you because Ren as scars along with other characters. But is not what makes him different, I love how Ren did not go all alpha male on Ivy. He knew when to step back and let her make her own choices and that just shows how mature he is. The personality of Ivy was more of a act now think later and because of her personality and Ren showed that he trusted Ivy with her decisions.

It is a part of the plot that a secret organization used to police the far and keep the gates to the other world closed. Her best friend Cal works with her, but she wants more, so she enrolled in college to become a social worker. She meets Ren, New from Colorado and she has a brownie from the other works living with her. She found him bruised and injured two years ago and healed him. No one knows about him, but she and Ten get pretty close and things escalate between them. Tink, the brownie, tells Ivy that all of the gates are closed except one. Her supervisor David, does not believe that not does he believe there are ancients in the city. If the gate opens and the Prince of princess comes through, all will pay the ultimate price. If the Prince merges with a halfling and a child is created, both worlds are doomed and it is a great story and I will finish it.

This was a fantastic read and my recommendation that fans of Kim Harrison should not in any way dissuade you. This is a clever, fantastic urban fantasy with a number of strong characters. I was laughing up a storm at some parts, and holding my breath at others. It read like a thriller, a mystery, and a romance all in one. The tension between the two main characters was palpable, and the supporting characters were relatable and amazing. This is the first book in a series. That said, it was not like so many of those serials that are out there where one story is spread across multiple books. No, wicked was a story in and of itself, and I am so looking forward to reading the sequel. It is one of my top reads so far, and I look forward to seeing all that this author has in store now that I have discovered her, hats off to you.

Can I just be honest here and say I am in love with this paranormal romance writing. Seriously, all of books of this author are just out of this world amazing and addicting. Luckily for me, this book had that same magic that she spins and I could put it down. You would think after publishing, well, a ton of books they would start to melt together and get repetitive, but that is just not the case. Each one of her novels or series stands all on its own with a splash of amazing sauce thrown in. What I really loved about Wicked though was that it was New Adult. I do not get to do as much research on upcoming books since becoming a mom. I just do not have the time, so I could be wrong here, but it seems to me like there is a large gap of good, quality, paranormal romance missing from the New Adult genre. So when I got my hands on this baby, I was beyond excited, just the right amount of world building, romance, and action thrown in.

It started off a little slow and I almost stopped reading, but decided to continue to push through because of my love for all of the books of this author, and I am so glad I did. The author always has such a stunning attention to detail that she leaves little to your own imagination. Once I pushed past the slow beginning the story began to pick up and it soon got to where I did not want to put it down, I just had to know what was going to happen next. The chemistry between Ivy and Ren left me desiring what they had. And Tink, he is by far one of the funniest characters I have ever read about in any book I have read. I loved following Ivy on her journey and learning about her past and the take on of Fae was different and interesting and I loved the twist it took at the end.

I am a bit torn about this story, no pun intended as Torn is the name of the next book in the series. This was a bit better but not outstanding. Ivy is a part of the Order that protects humans against the Fae and Ren is a transfer from Colorado and very mysterious. Together, they must find the person who is betraying the Order to the Fae, who wants to open the gates to come through to the human world. The story takes place in lovely New Orleans and Armentrout paints a vivid picture of the city. So if you have been there, you have huge amounts of references as to every part of town Ivy and Ren travel to. While the story itself was entertaining, the dialogue was a bit weird. Some of the things Ren would say to Ivy felt a bit awkward because no one speaks that way in normal conversation. So while the dialogue was a bit off putting, it did not stop me from reading the rest of the book. There are a few supporting characters that have the potential to steal the show.

If you love adult Paranormal Romance, there is no way you will not like this book. In my opinion, it had everything the strong kick ass female main character who is extremely likable, the sexy love interest who somehow always knows the perfect things to say, an extremely well developed plot with action, intense romance and twists, and that ending. The way it ended blew my mind, completely took me by surprise and I was in shock after reading the last page. It was then that I realized the second book in the trilogy torn will not be released until late summer. I have never been so upset after realizing I picked an awesome book without a completed series which I normally never do because I tend to read super fast and am impatient. I read a lot of paranormal romance and this is the first trilogy I am going to patiently wait for and finish because I loved it that much.

A lot of my friends are huge fans of this author, so I had to check her out plus this book was about Fae which I love. The book started off a little slow for me but once it picked up I could not put it down. Right off get bat I loved Tink the Brownie and every part he had in the book he stole the scene. Even though he is a Brownie and she should have killed him I am glad she did not. I love the way he cares for her in his own special way. Ivy and Ren at first I was not sure of their connection but as the book progressed it got better and I was all for it. They had some nice getting to know you moments and the sexy moments were hot as well. Ren is your typical alpha plus he has a kind heart. The character build up and development was good. The writing was exceptional and the story plot sucked me in and that ending. I had a feeling that was coming and I can not wait to see what happens next, good job that the author did.

After the first chapters I really felt like man, my first bad review on a book. Thought I would never see the day, but then it just gripped me and thrusted me into the story. I think the writing and the way to create a believable mythology of this author is blessed. Her heroines, although Ivy is not my favorite yet, she is likable and very compatible with Ren. This is really a strength in the books of this author and the guys are totally swoon worthy. Ren is hot, sweet, vulnerable and there is some kind if irresistible desperation in his pursuit of Ivy, and he does not shy away from what he wants. He is cocky in a most charming way and he works so good together with Ivy. The plot is great and I loved the adventure but it was a slow start for me, maybe because I am so used to being hooked from page one with this author. But this book did not disappoint and now I have two highly expected book releases to look forward to this summer from the author, great read, and quite steamy.