#116. Vampire Academy
#Leigh Dragoon
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Vampire-Academy-Leigh-Dragoon/product-reviews/1595144293/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I read this in only a couple of sittings for a clear the shelves challenge. Downloaded this book years ago and am just getting to it now. It was a fast read, but really too young adult for me. Loads of teen angst and all the stuff that goes on in high school that I have no desire to ever experience again. I did like the heroine, strong, spunky, confident. I do have the second novel in this series waiting to be cleared off the shelves, so I will continue that far, but probably no further.

The book is pretty much standard for novels, however, as characters I find Rose and Lyssa interesting. They are both confident, strong women who find strength in each other and it is that relationship that spurred me on to finish the book even as I got bored with it. Overall, the book does have some issues, namely with Dimitri and Rose, but has elements that trump the problems that might have arrived with the student or mentor relationship. The author handled it very well in the first book and I like that Dimitri made the mature decision. The world building leaves something to be desired, and while I might give the next couple of books a chance in the future, this book dragged on a little too long to jump right into the next one. There are better books to read in this genre but it is definitely something I would recommend to a fan just starting with Urban Fantasy realms.

So I did like the world, sorta, I just did not get into it. I do not think there was enough detail there and this book is all about Rose and her emotional connection to Lissa. Everything else is just the jello sliding through the spaces of an already full tummy. The emphasis is all about Rose and her change in the past couple of years. And I mean, All about Rose, everything else is incidental. The writing is so passive as to make vanilla look interesting. The climax is not even remotely surprising or emotional or hell, even action would have made this a tad more interesting. But there is nothing and it is like Rose is just relating a history lesson to fall asleep to.

Okay, I am spoilt having read so much supernatural stuff, from books written for Young Adult to books written for the more mature reader. Vampire Academy is well written but I find the heroine incredibly annoying and the general bitchiness and dubious morals of the supporting characters sickening. Yes, I know it is plausible having raised a teenage girl and have to keep reminding myself it is Young Adult Fiction. I am totally grossed out by the feeders, but I like the concept and the overall story line and have ordered the next two books in the series, trusting Rose will mature. Humans who allow the Moroi to feed on them and then get high on whatever it is that is released in the process. So the three stars is a personal issue, my issues might not affect another reader.

Good idea, but poorly executed and the shallow characters and lack of plot created three hundred plus pages of boredom. I wanted to finish the book to give it a fair review, but uninteresting characters and the lack of any sense of urgency, made it a painful ride. Vapid conversation dominated with no talk about goals or dreams. Because of the complexities of the different types of vampires, the author spent too much time explaining. Show me as the story unfolds, it would have much easier to remember and added depth to a weak story. Or make this less complex, does having all these different creatures really add to the story.

I really was looking forward to the graphic novel. I thought the pictures were pretty accurate. The only problem was that I was not expecting it to be so short. I expected it to be close, if not exactly like the book. I was sort of disappointed that I did not get the whole book. Parts that I wanted in it, were not in it. And it was not very detailed, I was expecting more words and it was kind of jumbled. My sister, who has not read the Vampire Academy Series, was confused on what was going on because she did not know how to follow it without the words. We both thought that it would be closer to the books, and maybe she would read this version since she is not a book reader. I still enjoyed it, and will buy the rest of the series but I hope to see improvements in these parts, throughout the rest of the series.

This was a good read, however I have to admit after reading some other fantastic vampire novels on the market this reminded me of them in some way. It is quite similar to the ever night series, however that was a five out of five in my eyes. However I did like the friendship bond between Rose and Lissa, and the romance between Dimitri and Rose is hot, looking forward to reading the next in the series to see what happens between them too. I did not like how it was focused on how attractive Rose is because she was a half vampire and that is how she was different from Moroi, honestly seemed shallow especially when it kept getting brought up even when Dimitri responds that he likes her because of her appearance. The book is focused on an older crowd to read, as this book has contents like smoking, drinking and sexual references. However, I enjoyed this book because it was focused on an older reader and felt it to be more realistic in some circumstances. I am looking forward to reading the next in this series, and excited that there will be a movie coming out next year.

I enjoyed the beginning of this book, not knowing where it was headed. But all too quickly, I was annoyed by all of the unnecessary swearing. Good story line that girls escape from academy, brought back to school where they encounter weird events, okay character development that some characters are all too forgettable, and an alright ending to a series book. I would be curious at how the next book in the series picks up and leaves the reader. That being said, I would show caution on letting younger teenagers read this as I felt like there was just too much swearing.

I have no idea why I decided to read this series and I think I was looking for something to pass time on a bus or something but I turned out to be pleasantly surprised. It is a vampire story and it is a teenage vampire story and those are rarely my genres of choice. But it works, for one thing, Rose Hathaway is no Mary Sue. Rose is impulsive, flawed and at times, not very likable. The plot is fairly linear that the misunderstood girl, teenage angst, unattainable romance, social pressures, a token bitchy rival and of course, the big impending real world climax that makes everything else seem small and insignificant in comparison, but the plot does work. Snappy plots and quick pacing make up for the lack of depth, at least no one gets bored. Plus, the entire vampire social structure was interesting to explore with the Moroi dynamics. It moves fast and delivers exactly what it promises, which is always a good thing. Generic, but not trash, good for a quick read, I think, even if it does not really stick with you.

Overall three stars, great book, just too much drama. This book reminded me of high school and who could start the most rumors or be the most popular. This made the book seem boring after a while. However, towards the end, the book got way better, two twist to it once you thought the bad guy was caught another popped up. It all fell together and it was way better than twilight and the vampire diaries together. These vamps did not live off animal blood or wolves, or being shiny in the sunlight and it did not have a romance in the middle which made it great just hated all the girl on girl drama.