#117. Souls Unfractured (Hades Hangmen) (Volume 3)
#Tillie Cole
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Souls-Unfractured-Hades-Hangmen-3/dp/1516846540/ref=sr_1_100?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556656997&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-100

I absolutely loved the story of Flame and Maddie. The author makes sure each of her characters unique and well defined and never writes a copy and paste story. This is a heart breaking beautiful story about two souls who are drawn together not just because of their broken lives but for the hope that love can heal what can still be healed. Souls Unfractured is full of touching moments that redeem the heart and twists and turns that blew me away. I highly recommend the entire series.

I looked forward to this book, because I needed to know the story of Flame. Maddie was a wonderful heroine, oddly perfect for him, but we had an idea of her background. Flame was an enigma, and I needed to understand this damaged, broken man. What a story it was, not only how he became Flame, but how he and Maddie worked through their pain. It was not easy, but their souls instinctively knew a kindred spirit and turned to each other for healing, even when they did not want to, when they did not understand it, when it was so freaking hard, and the payoff was so worth it. These stories are layered with psychological quirks, for lack of a better word, and understanding and healing. Yeah, there is violence, and it pains me, but kudos to the author for never walking away from that. She does not pull her punches, and that gives the books a realistic tone that puts them in a class by themselves.

This is the third book in this series and can not be read as a standalone, all books must be read in series order. This book contains graphic and disturbing themes, which can be triggering for some. Please read with caution since there are not enough words to adequately express my love of this book. The author hit it out of the park with this book, and it is brutal, raw and passionate. Flame and Maddie are so inherently broken, beaten down to tiny, minuscule pieces, yet, together they put each other back together. Flame is so well written and he is labeled a psycho and all the characters seem to give him a wide berth and he views the world from a different lens. Flame is such a unique character, he is so broken yet relatable. You simply root for this character to overcome his demons. Maddie is the most perfect compliment to Flame and they make sense, they click, the belong together. This book was by far the darkest in the series, in my opinion, you can not help but love theses characters in all their fractured glory. The author is a master wordsmith and wove this tale smoothly and effortlessly. I honestly cannot get enough of these two and I hope the author dedicates another book to them.

This is the story that I could not wait for when you were introduced to these two characters in the first book in the series. When you are first introduced to Flame and his character is one that makes you want to know more about him, at least for me. Flame is one that does not like to be touched or to touch others. He is very solitary in his life, the tattoos, scars and the self cutting are what makes others stay at a distance, even his brothers. That is until he meets Maddie, it is when he is with her that you are told his story and the reason for why he is the way that he is. Maddie was introduced as well in the first book of the series, she is the sister of the Mae. You are told of some of her story in the first and second books of the series, but it is this book that you are brought to understand why Maddie is one of solidarity as well. When Flame kills the man that Maddie was serving under, she does something that no one ever thought would happen that she hugged another person, and that person was Flame. This contact was the beginning of Flame obsession with Maddie, and Maddie obsession with Flame, they both were two broken people that were able to heal one another.

I do not have words to describe how special this book is. It is beyond amazing and very well written. It touches on some really tough subjects of abuse that tear my heart out. Beyond that, we get to watch two fractured people learn their way past their past and to happiness through each other. It is beautiful and the story of Maddie and Flame is beautiful and I loved their characters. I am going to go ahead and assume Flame is autistic. It breaks me to read about how he was treated due to his differences. I freaking loved AK and Vike as well. The love and support AK and Vike had for Flame was beautiful. I seriously love them. I will always remember this story and these characters. This book will stick with me forever and I am so happy they got their.

Maddie and Flame, two utterly and deeply fractured souls who can only be made whole by each other unconditional love, a love that knows no bounds. They both suffer from their extremely harsh pasts that Flame believed he was riddled with sin, evil and retardation, tortured by the flames living within his veins and the darkness that encompassed his very being. Maddie was viewed as inherently evil in her commune because of her looks and believed it was true, having absolutely no free will while others controlled her fate. From the very first moment these two make contact, their entire axis is shifted, one wanting to save the other from their own personal pain. Book one and two shocked, angered and surprised me but Book three broke me into a million pieces. I felt their pain, cried my eyes out, bled internally, an exceptional story with all the feels. Tortured Stars for Unfractured Souls, a novel that gifts life and light and awakens your faith in mankind.

Maddie and Flame were the stars of this book and I love them since characters were well written. I would have loved it more if the cult was not part of it. It would have been a nice break from it, but it also did not ruin it. I mean I get mentioning it, but it is getting to the point of overkill, definitely has potential for triggers for any child abuse victims. I mean it is talked about in extreme detail, a lot, in the book. I love how Maddie was the strong one and I usually do not like that, but with Flame it works. Maybe because Flame was still the strong crazy Alpha, but Maddie was the emotionally strong one.

Ten perfect star for Flame and Maddie since they broke not just my heart but down right to my soul. Their story, I never cried so hard for any man in a book I have read. And it is not that sobbing or tears coming non stop kinda cry, it is my heart, my soul. It is that kinda cry that soul crushing you could not even shed a tear, no one, no human, no soul should ever endure what happened to both of them. They both were crushed right to their soul and they rise together to live. To be happy, it was speechless for the great work with this book of the author. After reading three books of Hades Hangmen, I would say Flame is the most beautiful soul and Maddie, that girl, is just so brave and pure and I love these couple to pieces.

This was a hard story to read and I cried and cried and for the broken children and the nightmares that follow them and haunt them day and night. I rejoiced in every hard won battle they conquered and smashed and felt every step backwards. It was truly a journey of healing, even if it is only enough to embrace the soul mate who rejoices at your side at the end of day. A heartbreaking story that took us places we have not been yet with the Hangmen, and Flame truly has my heart. That scarred ,beautiful warrior of few words, five soulful stars.

I have read a lot of motorcycle romance novels, a lot. This series is unique because it has so much heart. Characters all suffered unspeakable trauma at the hand of a religious cult, but each displayed completely different ways of coping and it is riveting. I literally read all three in a weekend because I could put it down. I also really appreciate the insight on what happened to Flame. It would have been easy to keep him as the inexplicably crazy character, but learning about him gives the series a depth it would not have had otherwise. I loved devotion of Viking and AK to Flame and their acceptance of Flames differences. If you overlook the cold blooded murdering part, you would find the story inspiring and heart warming and I can not wait to read the next book.