#12. That Month in Tuscany
#Inglath Cooper
#URL https://www.amazon.com/That-Month-Tuscany-Inglath-Cooper-ebook/product-reviews/B00MSR5EJA/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I was hoping that this book would be a light summer read that would allow me to travel to the streets of Italy, but instead it is a cliche love story that becomes extremely boring and predictable. The characters basic backgrounds are extremely uninteresting and unconvincing that I could not entirely believe that these people could actually have any real life problems let alone any character growth. The storyline was all over the place, especially the events that occur with the daughter which makes me realize that this author does not seem to know whether she should make this book a romantic story or a thriller.

This was going to be one of the best books I have ever read, woman discovering herself, hot sexy distraction, idiot husband about to be an ex and deservedly. Point of view and characters are unique and interesting, plot is riveting. Then the eye rolling starts. The daughter is kidnapped by white slavers. Out of the blue in a bad way, completely ruined the book, it was about to be a great book and this felt like a lazy plot twist because the writer did not know what to do next and the ending just happened with a whimper, very disappointing.

Romantic fantasy of a 16 year old imagination written by an adult woman. Very predictable, unimaginative, disappointing. I also agree with other reviewers that the twist involving the daughter was unnecessary with no connection to the main story. There were so many other plot options that could have been used to produce the same result.

I typically avoid romance novels because of their predictable formula like plot line. I thought this novel was going to be different. The story can be summarized in a single sentence. I might call out spoiler alert but you will have this book figured out in a few pages. Married woman bad, philandering husband of course meets world famous rock star and they fall in love. A quickly resolved drama involving the woman daughter occurs, more husband philandering, happily ever after with the rock star. The rest is just filler. Well written filler, I must say, but filler just the same.

First I would like to say overall this was an enjoyable read. But it could have been a great read if the writer had stayed on course of what was happening in the beginning of the book and did not throw in the crazy sub plot about the main character daughter. I wanted to read more about the main character relationship with the rock star, and about travels in Italy and the final resolution with the jerk ex husband. But the sub plot about the daughter ruined it.

As other reviewers suggested, I should not have not wasted my time or money on this book. Poor character development and plot line. If the author has been to Florence, it was not evident by reading this book. Seems like it was written in a hurry and not proofread. It is too bad because the title was promising.

I liked the book enough to finish it. There were numerous editorial mistakes or oversights. The woman Ty has an affair with us 24 and a junior partner. Most people do not graduate from school until they are at least 25 and then they need to work for several to many years before making partner. This is just one of the many shoddy mistakes in the book. I found the story highly predictable. The characters were not well developed but could have been.

Fun story but a bit unrealistic that a young rock star would fall for a middle aged. Felt like author rushed to tie up the loose ends and that blast third of the book is less well paced. Kidnapping does not fit and is not needed. And, she is not in Tuscany for a month.

Fun and quick summer read. This is not my usual type of preferred reading but I needed a change of pace and a quick read and this fits the bill. I enjoyed her writing style for the most part. A few of the lines were recycled throughout the book which left me feeling that it was quickly written. It also lacked depth, but again, a great quick summer read.

I read this book because it was selected by my book club. I do not usually read romance novels as they all seem a little trite. I loved the parts of the book that involved Italy but found the love interest between Lizzy and Ren to be just as cliched as I had presumed including the rescue puppy. Way too much sweetness that was not countered by the ugliness of what happened to Lizzys daughter.