#121. Paladin of Souls (Chalion series)
#Lois McMaster Bujold
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Paladin-Souls-Chalion-McMaster-Bujold/dp/0380818612/ref=sr_1_114?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-114

This Hugo and Nebula award winning novel is the second book in the World of the Five Gods trilogy, a world that includes demons in addition to the eponymous five gods. The tale picks up a few years after the opening volume, which I loved. This time, the story centers on Ista, who appeared in the previous installment in a more minor role as a royal widow, generally thought to be mad. In this book, Ista comes into her own, and there is something very satisfying about having an intelligent, irreverent forty year old woman finding adventures and purpose. I enjoyed the book considerably and perhaps the start was marginally long winded, perhaps the romance elements were marginally too perfect, but no matter. I note that I particularly like the Bastard God. As I particularly like the moments of wit, I look forward to the third book.

I read the first novel, The Curse of Chalion, and loved it, so I thought I would try this one and I am so glad I did. In the first book, Cazaril was a great main character and I loved his story, however, Ista was not a strong character at all and I was concerned since this book had her as the main character that I would not like this story as much. Well, after reading it, I found out how wrong I was, under the guidance, Ista became a fantastic main character and I loved this book just as much as the first. In short, I very highly recommend this book to anyone who likes high fantasy and adventure. It is going in my Best Books collection that I keep on my Kindle to reread when I can not find any new books that look interesting, try it and I bet you like it.

The world of Chalion and the Five Gods religion that the author has created in this book and the other related works is fascinating and inspiring. The relationship with the characters is very intimate, showing their thoughts and motivations with such delicacy and skill. The characters are beautifully portrayed and one becomes invested quite quickly in their lives. A whole hearted recommendation to read this and all the stories set in this universe.

I loved The Curse of Chalion, more accurately, I adored the male lead Cazaril because rarely have I so wanted to hug and love and cuddle and feed soup and cookies to a character. This book is a follow up companion, taking a side character from the first, the mother of the female lead, and shoving her unceremoniously into the spotlight. My beloved Cazaril is mentioned only in passing, but I still really enjoyed the read. Ista was god touched in her youth, which basically means that she went insane for an extended period of time. Now well into middle age, her finally had her mental faculties returned to her just in time to go on a pilgrimage after her imposing mother death where she ends up dealing with invasions and her own kidnapping. It features zombies, the comparison of penises to birds, a rather bizarre love geometric figure who have not quite decided on the exact shape yet, a meddling Bastard god, and other fun things of that like, all filtered through the lens of a pragmatic, wry forty year old woman.

I can not help but give Paladin of Souls five stars, for one thing, it is a book of this author, which means it was written by one of the modern masters of science fiction and fantasy. For another thing, though, it is a brilliant idea, with believable characters, including the Five Gods, several of which make appearances in this book. For a third thing, the book has a definite spin on the classic not dead concept that really grabbed me. I would recommend this book to any fans of this author who have not yet tried her fantasies, to any lovers of richly build fantasy worlds, and to anyone who loves a good not dead tale.

This second book of the Chalion universe picks up with a nice new direction and I was happy to see a strong female character in the lead for this book. The choice of which character from the first novel to use as the lead character was an interesting surprise. I appreciated the new point of view the author was able to achieve by taking someone we knew a bit about and then looking at the world through her eyes. The story feels natural and consistent with what we knew before but now things can move in a new direction. Again in this book the landscapes and setting are very well done. The conflicts, both spiritual and physical, that the characters encounter are emotionally powerful. The characters are well thought out and even if some are a bit stereotypical they ring true to form. If you enjoyed the first book you will definitely want to read this as well.

Paladin of Souls includes gods, goddesses, demons, and touches of spirituality, but it is the exceptional human characters who stand out in the story. The noble, haunted Ista, the royal warrior Arhys, the long suffering Illvin and his loyal caretaker Goram, as well as the good Foix and Liss have depth, determination, and courage. Also, at times, the prose is so exceptional, I felt I was reading a work of Shakespeare if he were a contemporary author and writing novels instead of plays today. I would recommend reading the Curse of Chalion first. It predates Paladin and includes another strong main character who is mentioned a little in this story. Paladin of Souls, a story of great soul men and women who persist through a fantasy obstacles of this world, was well worth the time and money spent on it.

It was Delicious to read the story of an underestimated, presumed addle woman go on this adventure. And spoiler win, you get even more of our favorite of the five gods, the Bastard as he guide or gropes Ista along in her journey. Her entourage is amazing, I cannot pick my favorite character since they are all deep and round. Even the main boss bad guy has layers like an onion, lots of action and less court intrigue compared to book one, off to devour book three.

This is one of my favorite non Miles books by Bujold, going into it I remember being a little worried with the main character being Ista and not one of the big characters from Curse of Chalion, but I think it really had room to breathe as a story because of it. It is the perfect way to close up several of the threads left open in Curse and I heard the Lady that the author speak a few years ago, and she suggested that the series should have five books, one for each of the gods. This was the book of Bastard and Chalion was obviously about the Daughter, and Hallowed Hunt about the Son, so I hope that some day we do get the final two books, one for the father and the mother.

Everyone else has said everything else there is to say about the fantasy novels of this author, especially this one, so there is not much for me to add. I will say that I have talked to one or two people who though this and Curse of Chalion started out too slowly. I have no idea what they are talking about and the time the author takes to craft the setting, the characters, the situation, is absolutely vital to the resolution of the story. An incredible read, and the author is the only fantasy writer I know of who has somehow managed to capture the essence of a genuine religious experience in all its indescribable complexity, absolutely astonishing.