#122. Deep (A Stage Dive Novel)
#Kylie Scott
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Stage-Novel-Kylie-Scott/dp/1250052394/ref=sr_1_115?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-115

I did not like Liz and Ben at all and I did not like that Liz had to do all the chasing. Every moment of the book was her chasing until the very end. I could not believe that Ben had any real feeling for Liz at all. With everything that he said, not wanting a relationship, not wanting his life to change, not wanting to get married, the list goes on and on. After a while I just wanted Liz to get a clue, the guy does not want this relationship and he completely ignore her after finding out she was pregnant and talking to her about it. Then he did it again when she went on tour with them. Then it finally came down to lame text messages and then at seventy percent he admits to having feelings for her but I just did not believe it. It was not convincing at all. Then at the end finding out about the contract he had the lawyers draw up and having it on him but not giving it to her. I mean, come on, I did not feel the connect at all and their relationship just did not feel right. I Loved the other books in the series though, just not this one.

The character just did not do it for me and how I loved the series and was excited to read this one too. I read the book of Jimmy, not a fan of him at all at first but oh man did he redeem himself In that book. But Ben, I just did not understand his story why was he so afraid of commitment. Jimmy had a reason for the way he was he was physically and mentally abused but Ben had no reason. He was so washy on Liz that I just felt bad for her every other guy in the series redeemed himself but Ben I honestly do not expect him to stick around when things get tough he kept saying sweet things but would walk away when it got too hard and I wanted to scream at him and say hello. Lizzy is going through a hard time too not just you. I feel like she should of made him grovel more because his actions just do not prove he will be there in the end and with a baby in the situation you can not just walk away. However I will continue to read from this author because I loved the series and Jimmy and Dave had my heart and I am excited to read more from her.

My least favorite out of the series and the author always writes a good book and Deep is indeed well written. The problem I had with the book was that Ben was an ass. Lizzy is a wonderful, strong girl who is much more deserving than being knocked up by a supreme jerk like Ben. Their relationship is mostly sex and when she needs him he lets her down every time. He remains self obsessed through the entire book and only shows interest in the mother of his child when he thinks Lizzy could find someone better. She should just leave, but he keeps worming his way into her life. His half hearted romantic gesture in the end is not that grand or enough to make up for all the cruelty he showed throughout the book.

Truthfully, the first two books were best and it kind has been a slow decline from there. The third book, was pretty annoying, mostly because the character is pretty annoying and I did not find him sexy or funny but, whatever. This one started okay but lack of visible need of Ben for Liz was a turn off. I mean, Ben seemed turned off so, it was contagious. Finally, Ben shows some feeling for her but then, for the forth or fifth time, I lost count, he runs away, figuratively, sometimes literally. She gave him way more chances than I would have. Supposedly he was fighting his feelings but you could fooled me, and everyone else. An abrupt ending, so you never really get to enjoy them actually being together, you know. Only plus is that you get a lot of face time with the characters from the previous books. Disappointed in this one, I will still look for new books from this author but she is not a sure thing anymore.

Is this the same author that wrote the first three books, some of the angst just went on and on. And the sex, way too much and too graphic. She should also do research into touring bands and there is no such thing as sleeping in and having breakfast. You take the first plane out to the next city on the tour, because if you do not and you do not make it, then your band is liable. By the time you arrive, you are so bloody tired all you can think about is going back to sleep. You wake up in the late afternoon and that is when you have breakfast and dinner is after the show. That is when you relax and enjoy a meal, finally getting to bed in the wee hours of the morning. Then it is back up again at the crack of dawn to take the first plane out to the next town, been there done that.

I have loved this series from the start, but I just was not feeling it with this book. The personality of Ben was non existent, much like his character throughout the book. This felt more like a chick lit than a rocker romance, the start of the relationship of Liz and Ben was cute with the flirty text messages and felt promising, but when the text stopped so did the little bit of chemistry they had, which I guess is understandable. I was also disappointed with the story line around Martha coming back. She was a true bitch to Liz several times, but it was Sam with security that sticks up for Liz not Ben. So why bring Liz back if she is going to make the look worse for the readers, and the epilogue featured more of bitchy Martha than Ben, what a let down. So at the end, I just did not feel the love between the two main characters.

My least favorite out of the series but only because I did not click with this couple. Ben and Lizzy were okay but did not pull at my heartstrings like the other couples did. I did love reading about Jimmy and the pregnancy in this book. It was great to see Jimmy so happily grown up and stable. Lena and the babies were obviously his world. I would really like to see a book featuring Sam and Martha and also how everyone is doing now.

I enjoyed the others in this series much more than I did this one. My major complaint was that I actually did not like Ben. I thought Ben was a douche bag, most times if the starts like this that he redeems himself by his love and treatment and I do not feel Ben did this. In between being together and then seeing each other again he was with other women. I felt he left her alone to deal with everything and when he finally decided to give her the time of day she was supposed to kiss his ass. The book was redeemed by seeing a bit more of Lena and Jimmy, my favorite couple, see Ben was a douche at the beginning but was redeemed.

This book was alright, good enough to entertain me for a few hours but it did not generate the same amount of excitement for me as the first two books in the series. I guess, it is because a lot more people are in the story now and the focus around the Liz and Ben are somewhat less than how it was with Eve and David on Lick, for example. One thing about this series that I like is the ink displayed or described on the arms and bodies of the male leads. And somehow I liked to see that on the cover picture on the books. Just like on the first three books especially on the first two actually. But the cover of this last one failed on that account and I can not see Ben on the male model on the cover.

I loved the Stage Dive series, but I did not love this book. The immaturity of Liz and washy attitude was so difficult for me to get into, and the attitude of Ben was just stupid. Other than lust, I could not figure out their chemistry, Ben is a grown man, but did not handle the situation at all like a grown man should, he really had no business messing with Liz. This book just was not what I would hoped it would be, though it was great to read about the rest of the band, they are at least entertaining.