#123. Hero
#Samantha Young
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Hero-Samantha-Young/dp/0451475607/ref=sr_1_119?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-119

This author never disappoints, hero was a phenomenal read. It grabbed me from the first chapter and I read non stop until I finished and I did not want it to end. Caine Carraway has moved into my top ten list of sexy, alpha, hot, brooding, broken billionaires. Surprisingly, I really liked Lexi as well, I do not usually like the heroine as well as I like the hero, but Lexi held her own and was just full of smart assery which was something that Caine needed in his life and she was more than willing to provide. The secondary characters were well developed and fun to get to know. You could help but fall in love with Henry Lexington, the best friend of Caine and college buddy. Effie was the bomb and I would love to have her for my neighbor and she was such a personality. Caine needed them both in his life to keep his intensity balanced. The author definitely knows how to write characters that pull you in and make you a part of the story. This book is a roller coaster ride that you will not want to get off of. There is plenty of angst, suspense and plot twists to keep you on the edge of your seat and flipping the pages, I loved it, I think you will, too.

I am a big fan of On Dublin Street series of this author so I snatched up this as soon as it was released. But I am judging this book by her own work apples to apples and find it somewhat lacking but nevertheless an entertaining read. The pros is that I liked the plot and I liked the characters. The character is your typical withdrawn and cold billionaire who falls for the beautiful, yet down to earth. The character does everything she can to break past his cold exterior. It has been done many times and this, while unoriginal, was a good effort. The best part of the book is every once in a while the terrific writing style breaks through enough to keep you interested. The cons is that, this story did not seem as authentic as the Dublin Street stories do, I did not feel it. The characters were two dimensional and the plot had too many melodramatic coincidences to be believable. This seems more like something that was written in earlier years.

This author is a solid author and she wrote one of my favorite books On Dublin Street and I am still waiting on the movie. I was so excited to read Hero because she never disappoints me, and disappoint me, she did not. Alexa was funny, sassy, she was stubborn and determined and she never gave up on Caine. She knew she could help and she did and Caine was sexy, and pure alpha. Most of the book I wanted to throw something at him for his behavior but I also found myself trying to protect him, especially when he showed us his softer side. I love the banter and the chemistry between characters. I am really hoping we get another book from this world.

There were so many things I liked about this book that I thought for sure it would be a five star read for me. Caine and Alexa have a common link in their past and when Caine finds out who Alexa is, he wants nothing to do with her. Eventually, Alexa ends up working for Caine then becomes sexually involved with him and I really enjoyed personality of Alexa. She went toe to toe with Caine and did not shy away from him. Caine was jerky to Alexa, but you could feel their connection. I definitely felt underneath his hard exterior, he had real feelings for her. There were moments that I wanted to shake Alexa and tell her to be tougher with Caine, but for the most part she was strong and I liked the way she handled him. I loved the amount of time Caine and Alexa spent together and the amount of dialogue they had. One of my biggest pet peeves when reading is when the couple spend more time apart than together. I also loved how they were the focus of the story and not the sub plot of their past. Everything was going great until the eighty percent mark. Then there were a series of events that were a little convoluted causing my rating to go down a star. After this little bump things got back on track and the book ended with the perfect epilogue.

This is a story about two people overcoming mistakes of their parents, allowing their closed off walls to be penetrated, and learning and allowing to love. Their pasts are connected in a not so good way, but the connection between the two of them is intense and off the charts. Caine is completely closed off. He is a jerk who allows no emotion or feeling and Lexie is determined to make him see he can love and be loved, regardless of what has happened to him in the past or what he may have done to feel he is not worthy of love. I loved the sassiness and quirkiness of Lexie and she was so fun, since the writing really had me feeling emotional for Lexie. The scenes were so heartfelt, they both had a lot of personal issues to overcome and she never gave up on him and there were times I wanted to strangle them both. Their chemistry was steamy and fierce and their journey anything but easy. The secondary characters were amusing and brought a lot to the story. This was a beautiful, heartwarming story that had me teary one minute, laughing the next, and my heart thumping in anticipation.

Going into this book I was pumped, I love this author and was so excited for this new stand alone from her. Sadly, this book was not everything I hoped for. Do not get me wrong, I am so glad I read it and I did enjoy it, but I did not love it like I thought I would. I am going to be brief here, Caine was a serious struggle for me. I love my alpha heroes with difficult pasts, but I draw the line at cruel. For me, Caine was cruel and some of the stunts he pulled did not sit well with me. I would not have put up with his antics and so I struggled with Alexa putting up with it. I love how Caine grew at the very end and the character he became, but I would have liked to see that growth sooner and see more of the new Caine. I enjoyed the mystery aspect towards the end and I also absolutely adored Effie and Henry. Those two characters were wonderful. All in all, I am so glad I read Hero because I did like the book and it is a good read, I just wish I had loved it more. Long story short, Caine is no Braden.

I already loved the Dublin Street series and this is the first book of hers that I have read outside of that world. I thoroughly enjoyed this book because it was different enough to feel like a fresh start and because the author writes very complex and imperfect characters and that makes the tales more believable and real. Caine is an interesting protagonist, he is basically an ass to Lexi from the beginning but she is impulsive and puts him into a corner confronting him with uncomfortable facts as a way of introducing herself. Caine is just back to work attempting to recover after the death of her mother when she sees Caine at her job. They share a past family trauma that causes him to hate her family and she confronts him with it at their first meeting, costing herself her job. Since Caine cost her the work, she guilt him into attempting to get her rehired to no avail so she ends up working for him. Someone who resents her and intends to make her life a living hell. Things do not go the way either of them planned.

The author does an emotionally damaged billionaire very well, giving him wonderful qualities we look for in a gentleman and then a zinger that makes him so real you can not help but love him more. Her heroines are feisty, intelligent, sassy and confident as perfect counterparts to these intimidating men we can not help but fall for. Caine and Alexa share a family history, not blood related obviously, but we will call it sins of the father and mother. An affair ruined two families and later brought new lovers together in a fight for their future. Emotional walls are put up and brought down, put up and brought down in a steady pattern. About the eighty percent mark in the book there is a new twist and I could not put it down. Beautiful angst romance turns suspenseful and thrilling. Caine Carraway versus Braden Carmichael, not sure but I am liking Caine. So thrilled to have gotten my copy from Netgalley for an honest review, I love the writing style of this author.

I found this book to be very different from other books I have read by this author. I ended up liking it but I really felt the leading character Cain Carraway was too cruel to Alexa Holland. I knew he had a reason behind it and was shut down emotionally but I felt that went on too long and I was not comfortable with it. It all came together at the end but the bullying, apparent indifference and plain cruelty did not do it for me. By the time it was all resolved, everything tied up a bit too neatly in the last few chapters. I expected more from this author, not a bad book, but I know she writes a lot better than this.

It is official, I have a girl crush on this author, this woman knows how to write a book. First off, I hate comparing books from other authors, but if someone asked me what this book reminds me of. I would say this book is like a mash up of Fifty Shades Freed, with a sided of Fixed Trilogy and a dash of Dublin Street, which if you ask me is a very good thing. This book has it all, brooding multimillionaire meets tenacious and strong minded Lexi whose pasts weave together. There was betrayal, secrecy, suspense, conflict, desire, and hope. The great thing about the author is that she creates amazing secondary characters. I loved Effie and Henry, they brought so much humor and gave the character of Caine more likability and benevolence. Overall I loved this book, it was difficult to put down and I can not wait to read more from the author.