#124. Tiffany Girl: A Novel
#Deeanne Gist
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Tiffany-Girl-Novel-Deeanne-Gist/dp/1451692447/ref=sr_1_122?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728529&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-122

Overall, I think that it was too long, and could have done with less protracted descriptions at times and not lost anything significant. I was disappointed that actually it was really just a love story, which I was alright with for about the first fifty five percent, but then I got to the point of finding it boringly predictable, and wished that Flossie And Reeve could just get themselves together and get on with it. In fact, I hate to say it but it was all a bit predictable and I just knew that the art gallery thing was going to be a swindle, and that the couple whose name began with Tiffany, were going from place to place doing this kind of thing. Having said all that I found that I actually enjoyed reading the book, and was surprised how quickly I raced through it. It was really only towards the end that I found it all to be a bit transparent, particularly now looking back on the book in its entirety.

Tiffany Girl is basically a long, drawn out romance novel and there is not enough in the book regarding Tiffany and the windows. The fair barely rates a chapter and Flossie is an extremely naive young woman who had no idea what real life was like outside her home. I just expected more from the book, the writing is okay, a little stilted, and I felt the book was too long. It could have ended much sooner, many things could have been edited from the book. I give Tiffany Girl three out of five stars. The ending is expected, you know what is going to happen from the moment Flossie and Reeve meet. I received a complimentary copy of Tiffany Girl from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

Checked this book out on CD from the library. I have read mist of Deanne Gists books and thought they were pleasant, and expected this to be so. It could be because I was listening to it and therefore had to experience every word, but I found it tedious, the heroine annoying and I am in full agreement with the initial revulsion of the hero to her. I stopped at chapter twenty, as usual I enjoyed the historical parts, but life is too short for the annoyance, I am sorry.

Reeve Wilder is a little peeved at his new next door neighbor in the boardinghouse, because the walls are thin, and he can hear everything she and her roommate talk about. Eventually though, her optimistic personality and desire to unite the boarders in mealtime fellowship attracts him to her. I did not care for this book and I have enjoyed other books by Deeanne Gist, but this one did not click with me. The semi rebellious personality and desire of Flossie to go against the will of her father did not endear her to me, or make me want to read about her for more pages. As for Reeve, after finishing the book I can not even remember anything about him. What did he do, what was special about him, where was he from, nothing makes him stick in my mind, except that he had some chemistry with Flossie. Thank you to Net Galley and Howard publishers for providing me with an electronic copy of this book to read and review.

This is the third and final book in the series and this tells the story of Flossie Jayne. A woman who decided to work and live somewhere besides with the home of her parent. She is an artist and seamstress and she moves into a boarding house. Where she tries to make the boarders her family. Her Job with Tiffany takes her to the Chicago World Fair and back again. She learns of living independently and what that means for that period of time. The book is full of information on that time and what it talks about what goes into making a Tiffany window. It is a good book and I would have liked more to have taken place at the fair and for more of the main characters of the other books to have made an appearance. I received a free copy of this book for this review.

This book was not to my liking. The Heroine is Flossie Jayne and she is a naive young woman who believes she is a talented artist and the apple of her parents eye. The Hero is Reeve Wilder, he is a independent journalist and later a novelist. They met up at a boarding house that they both live in. The relationship has its ups and down. Especially since Reeve is against, New Women, women who work and Flossie works for Tiffany. There is no sex and very little kissing. I would not hesitate to give the book to a child. The book is very well researched and sticks real close to historical events. The pace of the plot is quick, but I was bored out of my mind. It also seemed that the author could not decide when to end the story. Usually an end with a marriage proposal or a wedding. This one went all the way to them going to the bedroom at their new home after the wedding and clothes came off but no body description. More of a description on how complex the clothing was back in those time.

Normally, I love all of the books of this author, however, this one was not my favorite. As always, her writing style is great and the detailed historic elements are well researched and interesting but I gave this book three stars because truthfully the characters, mainly Flossie, annoyed me. I could not connect with the character of Flossie because of the level of the immaturity and naivety of Flossie. I feel like her character was somewhat unrealistic and would be better suited for preteen novel and I received an advanced copy for my honest review.

One glance at an authentic Tiffany Window or Lamp and you will never forget that moment. The artistry is just breathtaking and it is very easy to just stare in wonder at seemingly humble objects that have been transformed into stunning scenes of imagination, nature and biblical themes. It is also easy to see why so many recent fiction novels use the lure of anything featuring Tiffany and I am among the many who when the words that Tiffany and stained glass or windows, chapels or jewelry are used in the same breath must pick up that new fiction release. Enter Tiffany Girl, when I read this premise I was hoping to love every moment and experience a step back in history with a vibrant cast of characters. Sadly that did not happen this time.

I know other readers are wondering if this novel is a strictly clean read and my answer is that I can not honestly say Tiffany Girl is a wholesome read because everyone seems to have their own definition of what that may mean. I can tell you that this story has the expected sugar and niceties but has some surprising spice tossed in. I am new to this type of fiction but it was certainly unexpected to find two temporary heated scenes in this book. That all aside I would not say Tiffany Girl was a bad book. It may just come down to personal taste, being in the right mood and perhaps frame of mind. So if the reader is looking for a lighthearted skip around the late nineteenth century with pleasant final messages or a simple read that briefly features the artistry of the Glass Cutting Department of Tiffany Glass and Decorating Company, you found the right book.

I was really looking forward to reading this book. After downloading it, I discovered that it was not enabled for text to speech. I was shocked this feature was not included. I love this author, but I requested a refund. I like the text to speech feature when I am unable to sit and actually read the book, very disappointed.