#129. It Started with a Scandal: Pennyroyal Green Series
#Julie Anne Long
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Started-Scandal-Pennyroyal-Green/dp/0062334824/ref=sr_1_132?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-132

Lord Lavay escaped his revolution of the country that took the lives of family and friends plus their wealthy properties. He struggles financially as he lives in a rental house in England where the servants are lazy refusing to do their work. Fountain is the forth housekeeper and is given a fortnight to prove she can handle the job. It will provide food and shelter for her and her young son. Their conversations reflex this strain on their lives, but soon their banter adds a humorous aspect to the story, both are likable characters. She is intelligent, hard working, caring. He seems fierce but she discovers he suffers from a great deal of pain. She tries to resist the passion that simmers just below the surface. The love scenes are intense and the last conversation he has with her is one of the most romantic ones I have read. I got this book a month ago and have already read it twice and I think it is a great romance.

This is another of lovely Pennyroyal Green series of this author and it is a good one. It could have been trite that girl of the gentry with an illegitimate child reduced to making a living for herself. She applies for the position of housekeeper to an irascible French nobleman temporarily living in Pennyroyal Green while he recovers from wounds suffered while working for the Crown. The staff is slovenly and disrespectful, even thieving. The heroine, Elise, starts to shape them up, a Herculean task, while also trying to turn the Prince Philippe up sweet. She hides her son from the prince, but everyone else adores the child, including, eventually, the prince. The story involves more, the determination of prince to recover his French estates and provide for the few family members who survived the Revolution, his commitment to marry a spoiled, beautiful French girl who would come into marriage with a sizable dowry, and his work for the Crown which is lucrative but at the moment, because of his injuries, on hold. Elise is determined to make a life for herself and her child, and their interaction, as well as the effect of the son on the prince, are beautifully drawn. Now I am waiting for the next in the series.

First of all, it must be noted that Pennyroyal Green has an unusually high ratio of attractive people. And those people tend to fall in love, dramatically and hard, within about three to thirty days to give or take. But hey, the reason I love the novels is not their devotion to plausibility. It is their devotion to characters who are emotionally real and compellingly drawn into deep romance. I should have known better than to start this book after dark, as it meant I was up into the wee hours devouring it. I enjoyed Lavay in his appearance in I Kissed an Earl, one of the best of this series, alongside Like No Other Lover, and felt Elise was a great version of a , hate to say it, plucky heroine. Several scenes made me giggle or laugh aloud, and Long is one of few authors who can make me blush right along with a character. She is just so good at depicting the tension and paradoxes of attraction and love. The plot is not without its holes and leaps and cliches and the tension comes from the emotions and priorities of characters, and those stay constant enough to carry the story. The spoiler alert that these characters eventually get it on, with no apparent care about preventing pregnancy, even though having a baby without a husband is the scandal of the life of Elise.

I like the variety that Julie Ann Long brings to her characters in the series. In this book, the hero and heroine are both mature adults. That tends to be the case where the heroine is the housekeeper for the hero. It is not my favorite romance set up as there is an unequal balance of power, but I like a smart, practical heroine. The main issue I did not like was that like in some of the other books of this author, the heroine sleeps with he hero after he does something nice for her and it just feels icky.

I love the this series and I thought this was another great entry to the series. Elise has a young son out of wed lock and after saying the wrong thing to the wrong person, finds herself dismissed from her position at school. Luckily, she is able to find a housekeeper position at the house rented by Phillipe, Lord Lavay. Lavay, a minor member of the House of Bourbon, is recuperating from an attack in London several months ago. Lavay is focused on regaining everything his family lost during the Terror, but he needs to marry money or complete a lucrative and dangerous government job. Elise and Lavay are fantastic together and there is a lot of humor in their interactions and each wants the best for the other. I liked watching Lavay come to realize the importance of loyalty of Elise and that restoring his past is not as important as creating a future full of love. The son Jack of Elise, is adorable and I love Lavay interactions with her son. The trademark story telling of this author is evident throughout the book, and I think this is my second favorite book. I can not wait to read Olivia and next book in September.

This author is on my must buy list, and this series is one of the reasons. This series, as her other works, features likable, entertaining characters, occasional laugh out loud moments, super hot romance, and fresh, engaging plots with occasional twists that you do not see coming. This story has all that, and a to die for hero. He is not an easy man to connect with, but through the eyes of heroine we find out why, and sympathize. The heroine is one of my favorite Long characters. She has had some hard knocks but has made the best of them, as we see as the story opens. This likely will not be on my reread list, like What I Did for a Duke, another in this series, but was an enjoyable read, bargain price too.

I loved reading this romance and I loved the pacing of it, the gradual understanding between the hero and heroine, and even the descriptions of the home, the hero lives in the home he had lost. And I am not much for descriptive language of clothes and manor homes, even though I love reading historical romance. But the author writes so beautifully that the descriptive language becomes part of the novel instead of something separate that it usually is in the hands of a much less skilled author. It dose not hurt that I have read the entire Pennyroyal series and feel a part of the village in some way. But, mostly, what I love about this particular book is that the hero is my favorite kind of hero, the one who gives up everything for love, or at least what most would believe is everything, and the heroine is lovely as well. And finally, we will have this story, no pressure for this story there.

What a wonderful book, the author has written a story full of sweetness and hope and I absolutely loved it. Elise and Phillipe were incredibly genuine and their interactions were touching and often funny. The romance developed on a straight path with no silly detours or interruptions. This is romance at its finest, two lonely people who fulfill each others needs, each enhances the other. These two people, and her son, are truly better for being together. The book did not need an epilogue for us to know that this relationship is real and enduring. I have loved the entire Pennyroyal Green series, but this is probably the strongest of all the books.

This was the first book in the Pennyroyal Green series that I have read. Suffice it to say that I will be going all the way back to the beginning and proceeding from there. I enjoyed each of the characters in this book. The main characters were very well developed and fit so well together, right from the start. I loved the banter they exchanged and found myself giggling at them throughout the book. There were bouts of tears interspersed as well. I liked the fact that the personal, not just sexual, tension began to build right from the start, and completely captured the attention of the reader. This was the first book in quite a while that has kept me up past early morning. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and am now an official groupie.

Another great book by Julie Anne Long and Elise is a strong woman making her way in a difficult world, adversity makes her stronger, and she loves a challenge. Lord Phillipe Levay is certainly a challenge. In pain, which makes him grumpy and prone to tantrums. Elise badly needs this job, she cannot fail, so rolls up her sleeves and straightens her spine and deals with the difficult Phillipe, and his lazy household staff. There is an immediate magnetic attraction, and along the way they heal each others battered spirits, and of course there is a little bit of adversity thrown in to spice things up a bit.