#130. Double Star
#Robert A. Heinlein
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Double-Star-Robert-Heinlein/dp/0345330137/ref=sr_1_138?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-138

It is an interesting and engrossing read through and through. I am not a big Heinlein fan but everything that I have read has been at least good or better and this is no exception. Presents an interesting world and characters feel real even though there is only a handful few of them in the whole story. The conflicts are well laid out and allow one to invest in the story. Other than that I would simply recommend this if you like classic science fiction find and a good story well written. I feel like saying more about the actual plot or characters is not needed for this kind of a novel.

I decided to read some science fiction from the fifties and was a little surprised by the lack of science fiction, This is a political novel with the intellectual level of middle school to high school. More like a comic book adapted to a novella. I was waiting for Flash Gordon or Captain Zero to appear. The story line is interesting but very predictable and I guessed the ending less than midway through the book. Unfortunately, I was spot on and all the surprises and the characters played out exactly as I thought they would. The author is a very good writer but this story can be placed in any context and aside from a background of Mars, Venus and a little space travel it had little to do with science fiction. Considering when it was written, the author does make an attempt at a few futuristic ideas but with little success. I am almost afraid to reread Stranger in a Strange Land as I really loved that book when I was a young teen.

I like the book, I did, however, I can not see how it deserved to win the Hugo Award in 1956. I have begun to read all of the nominees and winners of the Hugo and Nebula awards since their inception. While this book is the best I have read so far, I remain continually amazed at the quality and content of the books from that era. It clearly was a different time and mindset. I did enjoy this book, I can not deny that. While it did not enrapt me, I was very curious to turn the page. But, when all was said and done, this book did not move me in any meaningful way, nor leave me with any new thoughts. I would not quite call the book forgettable. In fact, as I was reading it, and wondered if I had not read this once sometime in my past, but, it is not a story that makes me want to come back and read it again in the future, your mileage may vary.

I saw this title for sale and thought, oh good a Heinlein I have not read. Wrong, I had read it many years before but forgot it because it was not worth remembering. The Martians are the merest sketch of his Martians portrayed in Stranger in a Strange Land. The hero is an ordinary shmuck who supposedly rises to greatness. But it is not convincing, simply a very poor outing of probably the best science fiction writer of all time and anyone can make a mistake.

That story, of an actor called upon to impersonate a prominent politician and who ends up much deeper than he bargained for, is certainly interesting enough and Heinlein pulls it off well. But by the standards of the speculative fiction being created at around the same time by science fiction contemporaries like Isaac Asimov and Arthur Clarke, this book is pedestrian, though I will concede that his protagonist is a much better character than any created by Asimov or Clarke in their books. At this point in his career, the author was still deep in his Boys Life phase, writing books with callow main characters intended for primarily teenage readers. In fact, Double Star, with its adult protagonist and mature theme, was an anomaly for the old time of this author, coming between Star Beast and Tunnel in the Sky and soon to be published teen romps like Time for the Stars and Citizen of the Galaxy.

A flat broke egocentric actor, is hired to be a body double for a high stand politician that John Bonforte, head of the Loyal Opposition and leader of the Expansionist Party. The double assignment was supposed to be temporary, but Lorenzo finds himself on the way to crucial ceremony at Mars where politics are at stake. And Lorenzo hates Martians, he is scared of them, but as substitute he must deal closely with them. Lorenzo enters in the midst of the acting challenge of a lifetime. Book starts out light and comical and eventually we see how arrogant, immature, and xenophobic, but also a a mimic, Lorenzo, transforms himself into a perfect copy of Bonforte both in psychical and emotional level. He must act, speak and think like stage would never end. Double star is about taking responsibility and how person steps into shoes of a world leader. In the background the political angle is used to imply racial issues, as observed from the schism between the Earth and Martians.

This is sort of a retelling of The Prisoner of Zenda, and the plot succeeds or fails based on whether or not you buy the possibility that, with just a little grease paint and some talent, one man could pass himself off as another, at close range, to people who knew him. The other part of the story is that this man whom you are impersonating is a key political figure in the story of mankind reaching out to the stars. He brings an end to human centered government, and xenophobic relations between Earth and the other inhabited planets in our Solar System. Heinlein takes on this sort of theme much more powerfully later in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress. This book is more of a romp, with some stuff to think about just coming along for the ride.

For the most part I enjoyed Double Star and It started out light and comical, but eventually lost those two elements the more we learn about the political situation and the more Lorenzo sinks into his role playing a double. Now that I look back there is very little science fiction involved in this book other than trips to Mars and the Moon. Beyond that it is a novel that focuses on politics, acting, and the theater. There are many references to Shakespeare, elements of which are the main plot of this book, deception and disguise. Not being a fan of politics in general, I thought the heavy political aspects eventually pulled the book down, but that is just my view. There are many people who enjoy this type of narrative. I wish Heinlein would have maintained the light and fun tone throughout. Regardless, it was an enjoyable read on my trek through the Hugo and Nebula winners.

This is a author, so it is worth reading. It is an interesting story, with a unique plot for science fiction at least, and is a politically charged work, for those who like that side of the author. In reality, this book could easily exist outside the genre of science fiction, so readers who do not normally like science fiction might dig this book. That said, this is not one of the best stories of this author. There is almost no science whatsoever, not that unusual, but alas, the dialogue is not up to his usual standards, and the story never really picks up steam like you expect it to. So, all in all, this is a book for the author devotee to pick up after they have already read most of his best work, an newbie should look elsewhere. A good book, but I can not see why it won a Hugo.

I know that Robert Heinlein is one of the masters of science fiction, and I know that this book won the Hugo award in 1957. I know that it is considered a classic, but for some reason it did not strike me as anything great. Do not get me wrong, it is definitely entertaining. In fact, if Hollywood is looking for a good story, this book would make a great movie. But as literature I just found it a little uninspired. Maybe I was expecting something else. But if you just want a good read and are just looking for entertainment I am sure you will enjoy the book. If you like your science fiction with a little more depth, try Stranger in a Strange Land or one of other books of this author.