#133. Lord of Light
#Roger Zelazny
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Lord-Light-Roger-Zelazny/dp/0380014033/ref=sr_1_143?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-143

I have been reading science fiction and fantasy for at least fifty years. This is one of the best and the whole technology class of the crashed star ship transforms themselves into the Hindu pantheon to rule the passenger descended populace scenario is unparalleled as a concept. Then, the great characters and the intricate flashback flash forward plot fleshing out this what if scenario should satisfy the most discriminating. The author was a great writer, and this was his very best work and every seven years I read it again.

To do what the author has done here with beauty, grace, and power is a masterpiece. Using science fiction to explore one most influential and dynamic parts of human history is an ambitious undertaking. Buddha and Hinduism have a relation that is depicted in this story, the reactionary nature Buddha against Hindu is realized. Using a great science fiction story to do is brilliant. In the course of doing the aspects of repression, totalitarianism, freedom are explored. I read several reviews of as one star. One reviewer indicated that it torture to read the few pages they and further said that if any liked it they had terrible taste. These people need to remember the Mario Brothers and first person shooters are not the height of cultural and the intellect standards. That fast pace and simpleton cookie cutter plots are just a way to placate the ignorant. Sam is an interesting character full of contradictions and anomalies yet remains true to his dream of a better life for the people. Like he said I really never claimed to be a God nor did I deny it, no good would come from either.

This really is science fiction fantasy literature. It contemplates timeless and universal questions of evolution and religion and politics. All with a fairly unique backdrop of futuristic Hindu mysticism and Buddhism on another planet that is different and same as our own at the same time. There is a lot to chew on in this book, after finishing the book I went back and reread the first chapter, as it is actually depicting events towards the end of the story. A knowledge of the Hindu pantheon or the tenants of Buddhism is not required to get the book, but it will certainly enrich your experience reading it. I have a very basic understanding of the Hindu gods and Buddhist practice and that was enough to understand the references in the book to those belief systems.

Great book, absolutely loved it. The author has quite a way with words and brings witty humor into his writing. I admit it took me a chapter or two to really get into the book and understand what was happening, but once I did, I flew through it. The characters are delightful, and the battles between the gods were amusing. Highly recommend this book if you have enjoyed other books by this author, highly recommend reading other works of this author.

Other reviewer said this was one of the five greatest novels of science fiction, and I humbly agree. And they are also all Hugo winners in their respective years. The inventive trope that the author used also in Creatures of Light of human beings in the future enacting the classic religious pantheons is clever and engaging recall the dictum of other author that when science is advanced enough, it is hard to differentiate magic or divine activity. If you have not read this classic, do not miss it, or for that matter almost any of the Hugo winners, though I must confess the endless of string of Hugo wins of Bujold rather puzzles me.

Characters in this book may be an illusion because the lesson the author might teach us is that self like all else is an illusion. It is a wild romping adventure, full of poetry and beautifully classical narrative style intermixed with bits of modern satire. The myths of Eastern religions are woven beautifully through a tale of an alien world settled by a ship from Earth, from India, called the star of India. Among other things it explores how technology can drastically tip the balance of power into the hands of those who possess it. Its explores love, emotions, self, the nature of life, death, virtue and evil. It is beautiful and it deepens ones understanding of Eastern mythology, at least for westerners and novices. It might be blasphemous, but its entertaining. As a western Buddhist, I felt it was enriching, and reminder of how the Buddha is everyone and no one.

This book is a Hugo award winning novel of space colonization that degenerates into a small group of elites and everyone else. This select group establishes a Hindu caste system with themselves as Hindu gods with technologically enhanced powers and near immortality. Within this mix is one man who feels the system is unfair and continually struggles to address the issue. The author offers a scientific perspective for how advanced technology becomes indistinguishable from magic. By maintaining society in essentially a medieval state, they can exert control over who lives and dies according to the whims of the gods. Sam struggles to break their hold and bring about acceleration of broad based technology to the masses. There are also indigenous life forms on the planet that are regarded as demons, but the character opt them for his plans.

A reigning light of science fiction, the late author pulls from human history, religion, politics and psychology to illustrate the development of one planet as a human colony in the far future. The focus is on the life and goals of one known variously as Sam, Siddhartha, and the Buddha, who strives to bring freedom, choice, and empowerment to the descendants of the original colonists. Ironically, their oppressors are none other than their progenitors, who control through religious orthodoxy and restricted access to technology and information. Sam, who is one of the originals, defies his fellows to lead a revolution of the mind and heart. The author is a dazzling writer, a master of allusion and inference, who combines rich description with deep historical and social awareness and intimate knowledge of the human heart. Lord of Light is to be read and savored as the jewel in the crown of this author.

This is one of the great books of science fiction and it is a almost unique mix of science, Hinduism and Buddhist philosophy. Though some fifty years old it reads as well today as in old times when it won the Hugo ward. The plot follows the crew of a colony ship that have set themselves up as gods to the descendants of the colonists. Lyrical with a great sense of place it should be read by all.

I always come away from a novel of this author wishing for more of the characters, the world building, the epic flow of the story line, the clever but unpretentious wordplay. Sam, the protagonist here, inhabits your head space as well as the Amber series, or dozens of other creations. I truly wish the many now out of print novels like Creatures of Light and Darkness and others were available in a quality Kindle edition.