#134. The Man in the High Castle
#Philip K. Dick
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Man-High-Castle-Philip-Dick/dp/0679740678/ref=sr_1_144?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556728592&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-144

This book is excruciatingly slow and pointless. So incredibly mundane and boring, and I wonder if the author was insane. Why the acclaim, I will never know, enough about Japanese conquerors obsessed with buying American Civil War memorabilia, enough about Germans landing on the moon and Mars, and German rocket ships used as commercial airlines that take you halfway around the world in forty five minutes. These are all briefly mentioned in passing, as the focus is on the turgid descriptions of stupid people consulting. This junk may have passed for an intellectual challenge in old times, but it sucks. I put it down after page sixty and flipped around and the pages ahead contained more of the same appallingly boring content. This novel sucks and I refuse to donate this book to Goodwill, as I would not want to subject anyone else to reading this horrible crap. I threw the book in the recycling bin.

The novel follows five different story lines in a sort of slice of life fashion and most of these story lines are incredibly boring. You have two men who quit their factory jobs to make homemade jewelry. A business man who is learning to grow a spine and think for himself. A woman reading a book about what if Japan and Germany lost the war. The only interesting story line where a woman reads about Japan and Germany losing the war. She reads a controversial book and sets out to meet the author. The resolution to that story is adequate. Not great, but at least it has something to do with the overarching point. The other story lines are slow, boring, and really have very little payoff in their resolution. Yes there is probably deeper meaning, but rereading some of the last chapters and their resolution, I found myself put off and slightly confused as to what the point was. I had to do extra research to figure out the ending of most of the plots in the book, which I generally consider a sign of a weak conclusion or bad writing. Maybe this was just too high concept for me, but most of the book was genuinely nor enjoyable to read. Most of the story lines were painful to push through. I wish I would not have wasted my time on this book.

This book is entertaining at times, but it is so exasperating to follow the story as the author uses more phrases than complete sentences and then writes what the characters think before what they actually say. The novel presents an alternate reality in which Japan and Germany win WWII and enter a Cold War between them. Inside that scenario, three or four stories are developed but are not so interesting at their conclusion. The ending of the book is worse than a Stephen King finale. I do not recommend this book at all, unless you do not have anything else to read at hand, stay away from this there are far better alternate history novels out there.

It made me ponder some things and the writing style was interesting, but the story could have been much more tightly tied together and could have reached a stronger conclusion. There were some points in this book that I really liked, for instance, what is the value of art, or, for that matter, anything. Does it have intrinsic value, or is the value only in the eye of the beholder. Does it only have value if we as individuals, or as society, choose to give it value. There were many nice tidbits like this brought up throughout the book, but ultimately they seemed to be tangential to the main thrust of the story. I really did not care for the interpretation of the ending which seems to be the consensus of other readers, but I did enjoy my interpretation of the ending.

The premise of this novel is an interesting one, and it certainly roped me in. I first heard of the show, and watched the first episode of that. I was intrigued, so I bought the book and read it. It was hard to follow several of the story lines because of the way the author wrote, perhaps trying to record the thoughts of the characters as they popped into his head instead of in full sentences. I was still interested until the very end, where the ending seriously angered me. I felt as though I had wasted my time reading the book and there was no point to any of it. The story could have gone so many different ways, but it was like he just got sick of thinking about what could happen and stopped writing, then someone else came in and hastily pounded out an ending that resolved absolutely nothing. Incidentally, I watched the second episode of the show, and it was so different from the book that I also lost interest in that.

There are multiple story lines of individuals in their personal quest for meaning in life of which characters stand out the most. All the characters are interlaced through common elements such as frequent references to the characters for predictions about the future and many of the characters reading the same novel within the novel. This novel expounds about a different outcome of WWII, but even though the Allies have won, it creates an alternate historical path thereby blurring the present dystopian world. Then there is a character who is able to travel between the two alternative realities.

Bought the book after seeing a couple episodes of the TV series which shares only the title as far as I can tell. Writing is okay, the characters are half baked and not very sympathetic. I did not care about any of them and whenever one got into a tense situation, the technique of this author technique leaked all the tension out of it. All this alternate history crap going on like Dick had read every book ever on the Nazi party but the TV version holds the story line and the alternate reality much better, long excursions into navel gazing by irrelevant characters who contribute utterly nothing to the plot. I was literally saying, who cares, after about the fifth time somebody started wondering which hexagram was what. Nobody has any arc and I will not spoil it but the ultimate resolution is of a piece with the rest of the book.

I thought I would enjoy this much more than I did. The premise is intriguing, but I never did care about any of the characters, found some of the plot to be inscrutable and the ending felt like it was written while a courier was impatiently waiting to take the manuscript to the publisher. I know Dick is a remarkable author and this book won awards. I just found it disappointing, as neither the alternate timeline and landscape nor the characters were sufficiently fleshed out for me.

I love science fiction, but this alternate history is a slow read. I think I will give it a second read, now that I have the characters sorted out. If you like this author, you will probably like this, but if you are looking for an alternative history with some real thought provoking dialogue and plots, this is slow and rather unsatisfying. Is it worth reading, yes, it plods along but with every page turn you hope something unpredictable will happen. It only gets interesting at the end and you may have a different opinion, and will never know until you read it. I do not regret buying and reading it and it was just a bit disappointing.

The only reason I am giving this book two stars is because of the extremely disappointing ending. This was a book that started out interesting, and had so much potential for being a great story. The fictional book is set in America in the 1960 after Germany victory in WWII, and introduces you to a whole set of interesting characters. However, by the end of the book, it just felt like the author got sick of writing the book and suddenly just decided to end it without any sort of resolution of any kind, nothing was resolved. The book just kind of suddenly ended in a nonsensical way. A fantastic idea for a book, but an insufficient, inadequate, and disappointing ending.