#135. A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)
#Walter M. Miller Jr.
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Canticle-Leibowitz-Bantam-Spectra-Book/dp/0553379267/ref=sr_1_153?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556732981&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-153

I absolutely loved this book and I posted a discussion asking what were the best apocalyptic fiction books, and this book kept on popping up as a Must Read. I will admit that I would never have chosen this book based on the premise. Abbots in a monastery are driven to preserve the past and they do not even care about what is happening in the outside world. I thought, the religion and monks, but so many people recommended it that I bought it. It turned out to be one of the best books I have ever read in my life, it truly is a masterpiece.

Several of my good reads friends happened to mention this book and it reminded me that it was one that I intended to get around to reading. Now that I have, I can see why it earned classic status. A group of monks in a monastery dedicated to Leibowitz, canonization pending, about thousand years after the incineration of a nuclear war and the masses deciding to kill off the elites that they blamed for it. So, all this time later they have not even discovered electricity again but one of them stumbles upon a fallout shelter with documents related to the saint, including a schematic diagram that no one can decipher, still, a fine candidate to illustrate in gold leaf with trailing flowers. Story jumps ahead a few hundred years when the human race seems to be back on track with scientific advancement which unfortunately includes nuclear weapons, this time in space. At any rate, I can see why it has been dubbed a classic. At times, this book is funny, sad, thought provoking and philosophical, definitely an imaginative and worthy read.

The religiously motivated philosophy of this author is made fairly clear throughout the work, and will not be to everyone taste, but it was to mine. I became very attached to many of the characters and especially to the Abbey, a bastion of disaster knowledge that is being safeguarded for future generations against the twin monstrosities of barbarian military might and soulless scientific scholarship. The author destroys arguments for euthanasia in a supremely satisfying sequence in the third part and I metaphorically stood up and clapped. The back cover claims that the work is seriously funny, stunning, and tragic, eternally fresh, imaginative, and altogether remarkable. Now, back cover copy is often will not to gush, sometimes in disturbing excess of praise for untalented work, but in this case, the back cover has nailed it. This book is one of the finest pieces of twentieth century American literature, let alone speculative science fiction, do yourself a favor and give it a read.

First, it was too easy to purchase the audio book as well as the text book unintentionally. And I found it impossible to reverse this process, costing me money I did not want to spend. I am still unsure as to how to redress this issue, I will try the audio book as the whole bums rush to buy seems to impel me, but I still want to know what exactly I did wrong to paint me into the corner. Anyways, enough of the mechanics of strong arm merchandising in the early twentieth century. The book itself is fabulous, and highlights some of the memes of the time that threaded through a number of different science fiction masterpieces including the underworld, the maze, the Minotaur, cycles and patterns of destruction. I used these metaphors and allegories in inception the modern reboot of west world and the Horizon Zero Dawn game. Go take a look and we have Orpheus and ancient theater at the root, but I would like to find out how they were rebooted into the nuclear era in the mid twentieth century. And echoes again in the early twentieth via those of us with a penchant for fine prose in literature, cyclical, organic, archetypal or by design, or all the above. If you press your face to a mirror, what do you see.

I am not sure I could say enough about how much both my husband and I loved this book. It is original, believable, darkly humorous and profound. The book is divided into a few different periods of time exploring the themes that firstly, human beings tend to repeat history, then secondly, the Word of God and Truth always prevail despite human failings. There are several other sub themes, such as exploration of euthanasia that are handled brilliantly. This is the sort of book that I could go back and read again, and I do not feel that way about many books, even classics.

This is a modern classic, regarding the Bantam Spectra mass market reissue, which says Paw Prints on the back and has a mostly black cover that one would think a hardcover would have some quality to it, but this is like the cheapest paperback you have ever seen. The paper is of newspaper print, lack of quality, the text is small, and the pages sometimes stick together near the binding, obscuring the first few letters of each line. I gave it four stars because mostly people want to know if the book is worth reading and it most certainly is. I took off one star for this edition, and if I were rating just the edition itself I would have given it the lowest possible rating. So, get the book, just pick a different edition.

Excellent envisioning of the cyclical nature of a developed society bent on destroying itself, told through several events in the history of a knowledge hoarding religious institution based on the structure of the catholic church. Their is not any religious preaching, which I was glad of, the church was only used a mechanism for carrying on knowledge through dedication to a cause. There is not anything not to like about this book that it is not much longer than a novella and it covers three different time periods, keeping the story from getting stale by introducing new technology and characters, and it creates wonder in its theory of the number of chances we get of running this planet, or, how many nukes till we destroy our tootsie pop or earth.

I have waited many years to read this book and it was well worth it. It is a timeless novel, as relevant today as it was when it first came out. There are many chilling passages that sneak up that left me thinking, worriedly, about the future, how we never seem to learn from our mistakes and an appalling realization that we could be all bent on self destruction, despite full knowledge and awareness of the ultimate consequence. There are no superheroes or comic book characters here, only thought provoking actions whose importance to the story are revealed by seemingly ordinary prose with the effect of a velvet hammer. Told mainly from the viewpoint of sheltered monks, the story had me thanking Google Translate for Latin and me ruing taking Spanish in high school instead. But these occasional rest stops gave cause for savoring the quality of the novel. Definitely a must read for anyone interested in a contemplative apocalyptic saga, but requires patience to appreciate fully.

This is one of the great books of the twentieth century. Why, it was one of the first post apocalyptic science fiction novels. It addresses science, spirituality, human frailty and redemption without ever sounding as pompous as this review is sounding. It has an unusual ending and addresses mutations, preconceptions about mutations. It is impossible to predict the ending, so I am a fan.

This book is as current as tomorrow and the view of the future of this author runs the gamut from humorous to catastrophic. It apocalyptic nature will leave you deeply concerned for the future of the world, but beware, it will be hard to put this book down once you begin reading it. My first reading came just after it was published during the old time and reading it was a memorable experience and unforgotten over the years. My hectic schedule made quick reading essential, so, although I found it intriguing, I missed much of the detail. I pledged to read it again, taking my time and absorbing the atmosphere of each portion until it no longer haunted me. Now, in my eightieth year, I have finally found the time and I was not disappointed.