#139. Amsterdam
#Ian McEwan
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Amsterdam-Ian-McEwan/dp/0099272776/ref=sr_1_169?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556733018&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-169

This is the first novel of this author I have read and It is masterfully written. The author is brilliant across the board with delightful language, plot, characters and anything else you could want in a novel, no wonder this won the Booker Prize. At a few points in the story, he shifts forward in time, calling attention to something in the plot that has already happened, without actually spilling the beans. This technique does just what it is supposed to do. It creates in you, the reader, this drive to figure out what that thing was that has happened between the characters, that thing that the author has kept to himself. I have a music background and one of the characters is a composer, and the author devotes a good deal of time and attention to the process of writing a major orchestral work. Very nicely done, if you have not read this, you should.

As to be expected from an Ian McEwan novel this has been eloquently written. It is not commercial fiction so some may find it a little bit slow paced. Read it to the end, and you will be surprised how well the characters have been developed although the time frame is just a few weeks. The plot centres around the death of Molly, a woman with a history of many lovers, including three of whom attend her funeral. The funeral sets into motion the secret fears and jealousies of the three men and their machinations to destroy one another. There is a clever twist in the tail.

Friends and former lovers are gathered together, along with her husband, to honor the dearly departed Molly Lane. The day is a chilly February, and as a couple of the former lovers commiserate about the rapid onset of the disease that killed her, we see that something else is taking place. They each, separately, and over the next few weeks, ponder their own mortality, as sometimes happens at the age of a friend and has died. And they each feared the kind of loss of faculties that Molly had suffered, rendering her virtually a prisoner to her possessive husband George, at a time when she had no control over her own life. Clive is a renowned composer, while Vernon is the editor of a newspaper that has seen better days. Julian is a politician with a secret, one which someone will use as leverage against him. None of these men can overlook their fragility at this time in their lives, and their fears and insecurities will lead them to take drastic actions with tragic consequences.

This book, by this author, was an interesting read where human flaws abound that hubris, jealousy, lying, cheating, politics, and finally revenge. It is a tragedy in the Greek sense that the character is wealthy, beautiful characters all fall from grace. Yet all of them had heroic qualities that were set aside for more immediate gratification. I found the tight plot to be original, witty, and compelling, right up to the over the top ending. Still, I can recommend this small novel as an easy, yet though provoking read, and one that has encouraged me to take a look at others among the work of this work.

I really did not know what to expect from this book. I bought it because it is a Booker Prize winner and I have enjoyed every title I have read by the author so far. The story started out slow and I had no idea where it was going. I did not know until close to the end that it had been building up to a shocking and darkly humorous climax. The two main characters are vain, contemptible creatures and their internal and external dialogues are delightfully witty and funny and had me laughing out loud in a few places. The author is simply brilliant, and I highly recommend this book.

The author remains one of my favorite authors. Once again, this is a masterfully written novel that keeps you thinking for days. All of novels of this author carry a powerful punch often leading to a catastrophe or at the least regret. I still can not get The Comfort of Strangers out of my head. Faced with a dilemma, our decision has consequences. Amsterdam questions our morality, is it our social responsibility to intervene on what appears to be a domestic argument. Is it ethical to publish compromising photos of a politician for personal gain. What could be the consequences of assisted suicide. I often underline bits that resonate with me. This is one of those bits that the open spaces that were meant to belittle his cares were belittling everything, endeavor seemed pointless. Symphonies especially, feeble blasts, bombast, doomed attempts to build a mountain in sound, passionate striving, and for money, respect, immortality. A way of denying the randomness that spawned us and of holding off the fear of death.

The character Amsterdam is about the wiggly nature of our judgments about what is or is not moral and justified behavior, about how spin makes our human herd so certain that one thing is good and another is evil, about how our self delusions can so easily pass as self truths when it is convenient, and finally about how, when we devolve completely into this insane ego battle, we destroy ourselves. This is the kind of material I have spent my life thinking about and it brings to mind both that old Mad Magazine cartoon and the conclusion to magnificent Nutshell about the roiling human soup we are born into that, one huge unhappy family with domestic problems that were of their nature insoluble.

This novel is intense, powerful, and brilliant. It tells the story of two men, Clive, a composer, and Vernon an editor of an English broadsheet, who were both in love with Molly, who has just died. A third man, Julian, has also been of lover of Molly. Clive and Vernon make a pact to destroy Julian, a right wing politician, who also was a lover of Molly. The plot weaves around and around as reader follows their lives, Clive composing, inspired, coming to the brink of a great work, then making a disastrous moral decision, Vernon in charge of his writing staff, articulate, organized, confident, then making his own disastrous moral decision. It is the astute use of language of this author, harsh, judgmental, precise that sets the tone for the book, the mindset of the two protagonists, the eventual fall of the two men.

This was my first read of this author and I picked it up as it was our next book group book. At the funeral of Molly Lane, the reader is introduced to three of her lovers, Clive Linley, a musical composer, Vernon Halliday, editor of a tabloid newspaper, and Julian Garmony, and important political figure in London. Clive and Vernon catch up as they are old friends and make a pact that they will never let the other suffer as Molly had suffered prior to passing. Through out the book they both make decisions that impact their lives. This book deals with themes of ambition, betrayal, trust, and selfishness. If you are someone who can appreciate prose and a writing style without needing the story to be incredibly captivating and page turning then you might enjoy this read. The story itself is not overly compelling but the description and writing style of this author flow so beautifully that you will appreciate the book perhaps more than you thought.

The character Amsterdam features two totally realized characters, a major composer and the editor of a major newspaper, who are friends, suffer career catastrophes, and blame each other. Throughout, the book has consistently brilliant technique, with fully realizing a mental state of the character or experience of the moment and then moving on seamlessly to the next. My favorite element in the book is description of the creative process. Here is Clive, the composer, thinking about his work. He knew exactly what he wanted and He was working backward really, sensing that the theme lay in the fragments and hints in what he had already written. He would recognize the right thing as soon as it occurred to him. In the finished piece the melody would sound to the innocent ear as though it had been anticipated or developed elsewhere in the score. Finding the notes would be an act of inspired synthesis. It was as if he knew them but could not yet hear them, excellent Work.