#14. The Hideaway
#Lauren K. Denton
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Hideaway-Lauren-K-Denton-ebook/product-reviews/B01HAK33TC/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

I loved this book and it is a story of love and loss and coming on the other side stronger and wiser. The characters are very believable and this was the first novel by this author but was written like a seasoned writer. I appreciated the wholesome way she chose to write this love story, but if she gives in to the pressure to write smut I will no longer be a fan. Recommend to anyone who loves romance novels with unexpected plot twists and turns, bravo, a must read.

I wish I could give this book four stars, but the legal real estate parts are so wrong that I can not get past it. I know it added drama to the story but the author should have done a better job of learning the law. The ending was somewhat obvious but that did not detract from it being a good story, probably a solid three and a half star offering in my opinion.

This pleasant and very predictable little romance tells how a young woman, Sara, uncovers the history of her mother and grandmother, Mags. Unfortunately, the most likable character in the book is her assistant at her business, Allyn, an artistic bohemian young man full of creative energy, but he does not play an active role in the plot. The story changes point of view back and forth between chapters, alternating between Sara and Mags story. This did not work well for me, because there is almost no difference between the voice like perspectives, ideas, motivations, speech patterns of the two women. I had to keep flipping back to find out which woman we were currently talking about.

This is an amazing book, one I would recommend to anyone who needs a Hideaway to find the life they are meant to discover within themselves. I am from Louisiana and the New Orleans setting caught my heart and attention from the beginning. As I continued to read, I found myself drawn to the old house, but mostly to Mags. The author was able to touch people lives simply because love had touched hers and changed her into who she really was, a woman with an incredible capacity to connect with others. The influence of the author continued to touch and change lives even after her death, thus at the Hideaway, people found love, but most importantly, they found themselves.

Sara gets to go back to her grandmother house she inherited and she learns about Mags, her grandmother when she was a young adult. I lost interest when Mag lover leaves for stupid reasons, and Mags spends the rest of her life pining for a man who just ups and leaves without ever talking to her again. After that, I could not find an interest anymore, skimmed it quickly.

The premise of the book was good and I liked the characters that had lived in the big old house with the grandmother since the sixty. I have to say though that though the story held my attention for the first seventy five percent, that last quarter was really predictable and I found myself skimming to the end. I thought the legal issues really unbelievable and all in all, the story fell really flat and there were no ups or downs or dramatic happenings. It just went along very evenly and towards the end, I could not find much reason to finish it except to see if anything exciting happened, which it did not.

Hideaway pulls you effortlessly into the world of Sweet Bay, Alabama, you will never want to leave. A lovely story of loss, love, and finding that maybe you can go home again. The Hideaway is filled with gorgeous scenery, a loving and hilarious group of senior citizens, and a woman trying to find her way. Loved so much about this book, a must read if you love Southern fiction, women fiction, or just a great story.

I really enjoyed reading this book and it was mostly set at an old bed and breakfast in Alabama, but parts of the story took place in New Orleans. The story itself centers around an eccentric grandmother and her granddaughter, who has to decide what to do after the grandmother passes away. The author shows how even though the grandmother seemed odd to the granddaughter, their lives had a lot in common. The author did a great job of describing the various settings in the story and the author made me want to visit Alabama and New Orleans. The author made her characters authentic, all in all, it was a very enjoyable read.

I thought this book would be a quick beach read, well I was very disappointed in a sense because it is a heartfelt, very emotional and deep read. The layers of the book peel away like layers, taking the readers deep into emotional issues such as lost love, relationships with parents and grandparents, societal norms, extended families, and so much more. As I traversed through the book, more and more of my emotions surface as the parallels between Sara and Megs closed. I loved the book as well as the characters who balanced and supported Mags and Sara, what a great love story.

This was such an engaging story and I really liked the way the narrative went back and forth between the two main characters. I also thought each character in the story was well developed and I could picture each one as I was reading. It is so refreshing to read a book that has neither foul language or overt sexual scenes. This is the first book I have read by this author but I will be looking for more.