#140. Way Station (SF Collector's Edition) (Gollancz Collectors' Editions)
#Clifford D. Simak
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Way-Station-Collectors-Gollancz-Editions/product-reviews/0575071389/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I like science fiction. In the distant past, when I was a commuter, I read hundreds of science fiction books over the years. Maybe this was one of them, so I bought it and thought I would give it a chance. After quite a while of reading this, nothing happened. Maybe something was going to happen, but I am getting older and did not have any more time to wait for it. I put it away and found another book to read. It is not long, but it feels that way.

There are characters whose only purpose seems to be delivering exposition. There is heavy reliance on coincidence driving the plot. There is much telling rather than showing. There are plot lines that have nothing to do with the rest of the story. The basic philosophy that drives the main musings of the character is one that makes me impatient, namely that peace will come when we all throw away our weapons. Apart from its very debatable merits, that philosophy seems refuted by the own climax of this novel in which the future of the galaxy is literally determined by use of arms. In sum, many wonderful ideas, not so wonderful storytelling. But it is really incredible to see so many ideas in baby form that seemingly grew up to become fixtures of popular culture.

I was buying this based on I have no idea how the rural US was all that time ago, but I can not buy persistent stupidity of this guy. For example, he subscribes to the same magazine at the same address using the same name for over one hundred years. Someone at the magazine notices and calls him. Any person with an intelligence quotient above freezing would vary the name on the magazine or, when queried if the same person was the subscriber would tell the caller that the answer is no. It is a family tradition to subscribe. Instead, the author just mumbles leaving another person eager to investigate. Knowing the FBI or some police agency is observing him, he buries an alien visitor who died in his family plot. The agent digs the alien up, which is a major crisis point needing addressing. I have no time for such idiocy, really, I will not even go into the girl next door with her own magic powers. That must be some lively place and I would heard good about this author and I am disappointed, really.

The first third of this book completely engrossed me. Such wonderful language and description of setting. Great themes and contemplation of man, his relationship to fellow man and the earth and then the earth to the universe, a science ficiton of a thinking man. This novel is not about lazer cannons, after past the 33 percent, the protagonist ruminates and ruminates and ruminates over the same material. It became quite tedious, boring and ever so slow. Once I got to the halfway point, I began to skim. I would skip several pages to find the protagonist still stuck on the same point, as if the pages I skipped never existed. It became so frustrating and I guessed what was gonna happen. I skimmed even more with a conclusion. I did finish it but I felt like I missed nothing, even if I had stopped reading. I felt author had beat the theme into the ground and I just did not care anymore.

This book was just okay for me and the premise is intriguing. The main character was likable, and his ruminations on humanity were thoughtful and at times quotable. The plot was interesting enough to keep my interest over weeks of reading. I was not sure how it was going to all pan out. Some of the important story elements felt like they were introduced out of nowhere and later in the narrative than they should have been. Some of the elements seemed wonderfully utilized, but others seemed almost unnecessary. There was not much action, or real life and death tension on the main character, to keep the pages turning either. All in all, I guess this book was not as epic or thought provoking as I thought it might be. It was enjoyable, I am glad I read it, but there is not much that really sticks.

I really wanted to like this book and the premise seemed promising, but I felt that the execution fell short on this one. There are times when dealing with the main character the story feels very disjointed. I never really felt compelling reasons to care about the characters. It never really felt like much happened in the book. Kept waiting for something extraordinary to happen and I never really felt like it made it there. And what was the climax felt underwhelming. An interesting idea to be sure. I will not say it was a waste of time, but I have no need to ever read it again or feel any desire to try any of his other books.

The mood of this book is very introvert, mainly focusing of the internal reflections of a Civil war survivor who for some unexplained reason becomes a kind of gatekeeper for aliens on the move through the galaxy. This strange plot is used as a background for reflecting on human nature and society. Some thoughts are quite interesting, but the story never gripped me, and the pace is very slow. The story is definitely different from most other science fiction, but in my personal opinion no way near a classic as suggested by some other reviews.

The first third of this book was entertaining. However the author became much too wordy and probably sixty seven percent of the text after that was reflection and the main characters feelings about the situation. Too much detail and feelings rather than story. The author should learn to tell a story rather than demonstrate he got a good work in descriptive writing. This was a short story stretched as far as he could. I did not care enough about the main character to care about reading chapter after chapter about the anguish he felt. Alien stories are hard to write anyway but this one was not good.

This is my first book of this author , so I bring no bias to it, but I am so surprised by the praise this novel has received. It reads, to these eyes anyway, like a first novel badly in need of an editor. There is a lot of descriptive narrative, and it is not all that compelling, I found myself skipping a lot of it in the last third of the book. Anyone with any experience in this genre can see the final machine coming from hundred pages away. The entire thing may have made an interesting novella, but that would have required a caring, skilled editor and a modest author. Sadly, this book seems to have benefited from neither and I would skip it.

It may be a classic but boy oh boy is it a slow read. I exaggerate a bit here but it felt like in seventy five pages we were introduced to basically one character who took a walk. Everything he saw, smelled, felt, and thought while walking was described in excruciating detail, in case you like that kind of thing. Got more than halfway so I feel like I gave it a fair shake, but I did not finish it. And I am a reader, love to read, will read the labels of lotion jars, shampoo bottles, and toothpaste tubes when I am sitting in a book or magazine free bathroom and I get desperate.