#143. The Social Animal: The Hidden Sources of Love, Character, and Achievement
#David Brooks
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Social-Animal-Sources-Character-Achievement/dp/0812979370/ref=pd_sim_14_2/142-5504423-8017841?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=0812979370&pd_rd_r=83b594aa-6c41-11e9-8684-3ba914696e6d&pd_rd_w=tvPgN&pd_rd_wg=r9eIj&pf_rd_p=90485860-83e9-4fd9-b838-b28a9b7fda30&pf_rd_r=B4XQBH3WAX6B26E9A7WW&psc=1&refRID=B4XQBH3WAX6B26E9A7WW

This book is very much written in the style of a documentary having to do with the human body, here we see Jane waking up in the morning and bumbling to her bathroom to take a shower. Little does Jane know, but millions of cells and nerves have been awake and busy all while she has been asleep, then the camera focuses in on her arm or face where a graphic or animation of internal activity takes place, demonstrating action at a cellular level. This book does the same with a cast of four characters who fall in love, marry, have children and those children then grow up, all while the narrator of the book interprets these activities, choices, and traits as sociological decisions which can go one way or another or a myriad of different ways. I loved this book and was riveted by its simple yet easily emphatic writing style. It seemed like the best kind of reference book, one that you find yourself happily quoting often, super ultra thumbs up.

I particularly enjoyed the customary of this author and careful craftsmanship, never over arguing a point. At times I wondered about his digressions into psychology and behavioral science, as I take it he is not an authority in either field. Nevertheless, he seems to have had good advisers, and none of it seemed to be controversial or out of place. Most of all, his moderate and even handed understanding of humanity was comforting and accessible, and perhaps closest to any truth that we can ever know.

I had to buy this book for class as it was required reading, but it is not just a boring textbook or nonfiction book. The writing makes the information about society role in a person life easy to read and digestible. He includes many facts and research about how people outcomes can be determined in life and the chances of success, why some succeed and others plateau. Yet, it is written in a story way most of the time, following a few main characters on how they meet, get married, have a son, and how their decisions affect their overall outcome in life. I would recommend this book for anyone who is interested in psychology and nonfiction books that are relevant to our lives. It was a good read and the book is paperback and came in time for class.

If you are looking for a page turner, this book is not it. On the other hand, it is a well written and fascinating book that follows the lives of two people from birth through death to illustrate how the human brain works and to highlight some of the best available knowledge in the fields of brain function and human sociology. The narrative is also unique because even though the characters age, their story is always told in the present. The author is not adding to the body of knowledge, instead, he is presenting a survey of the best current thinking while also gently spinning that information into his worldview. Since I am an admitted a fan of this author, the result for me is very satisfying. Brooks makes a compelling case for deep, non cognitive memory and its importance in how people and societies function. He also presents some positions that are politically incorrect such as pointing out research indicating that cultural differences do make a difference in human success or failure.

The author weaves a narrative with some of the latest research in psychology and other sciences. He provides what might be fairly dry information in a much more compelling way. As I began reading the book, I was not at all sure I would like the approach. I found the story line hard to follow when he would interject current research findings and this is why I rated four stars instead of five. But once I got used to his unorthodox format, I found his approach to be creative and refreshing. Honestly, I think the story line is a bit weak, but I think that is because it must meander in certain ways to make the research the author wants to present relevant. I do think the story line is strong enough to keep the overall book flowing. For me, the presentation of research findings was at the core of this book, and much of what is presented is compelling.

Everyone who wants to understand what it means to be human should read this unique book. This book alternates between the story of Harold and Erica, who led wonderfully fulfilling lives, and an extensively documented account of the revolution in consciousness which has emerged from recent science, and is changing everything we thought we knew about happiness and success. By giving us two concrete lives to follow, the author shows how our new knowledge of the ways our brains function actually plays out in real life. The scope of this book is immense, and his straightforward journalistic style makes it an easy read. This is the most important book I have read.

I loved this book and count me one of the people who enjoyed the writing style and approach of the author. The writing is simple and entertaining and the choice of a naming characters, by and large sticking to chronological order, and writing in a narrative style, fits my tendency to read only a few chapters of a book, before putting it down for days. The book is well researched and although, there are more complete bodies of works on non cognitive learning, eighty percent body of knowledge with 20% reading pain is just fine for most people. I gave it one penalty star for one minor reason. Gender generalization and I intellectually understand that the characters had to be fully developed, but it made me cringe at times, when he generalized on the better sex. As a husband and a father of three girls, you can generalize all you want about men and I do not care. But generalizations on women creeps me out and the reader has been warned.

This book is a very well written tour of the last fifty years of social science research. He presents this material in an interesting almost novel like manner by tracing the lives of two fictitious people. The end notes provide a useful tool for further reading. If your spouse, sibling, or running partner has an interest in this sort of material, you can have a most interesting discussion or interaction by reading this book, one chapter at a time, and discussing the chapter you have just read. There is so much material to think about that you should not read several chapters and then discuss these all at once. Much of the research reveals facts that appear to be obvious, but many of the facts are surprising. In only one instance, concerning whether or not more homework leads to better school performance, I found that the backup research lacked validity. This book is a great vehicle for learning about the progress made in social science over the last fifty years. I recommend this book without reservation.

I really like this book and it is very thought provoking and I know that it will impact the way I read other books from this point on. For starters, I will read every book twice and I never thought about this with books before but I know it is the case with movies. Every time you see a movie you realized that there is a part you missed or maybe had a different meaning the second time around from the first time you saw it. It is also a great summary of other books that have touched on various topics that the author discusses. I like how this examines terrorists and the ways that governments are going about dealing with them.

Excellently researched and informative, this book has something for everyone distributed throughout. The narrative is kept interesting by these sidelights while the main story is, by design, pretty mainstream and devoid of action, scintillating dialogue or gratuitous sex scenes. A good gift for any life long learner type or those who appreciate what is below the surface in human interaction.