#144. Girl, Stop Apologizing: A Shame-Free Plan for Embracing and Achieving Your Goals
#Rachel Hollis
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Girl-Stop-Apologizing-Shame-Free-Embracing/dp/1400209609/ref=sr_1_9?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736403&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-9

This is the second book of this author and just like her first book it is being marketed to both a Christian and secular audience. But the contents give one cause for alarm as there are many anti biblical principles and thought processes that raise some serious red flags. Just like her first book, she is putting herself and her life above all else and presenting this as the way to live even if you are a Christian, which is secular humanism. If you read reviews on the Gospel Coalition and elsewhere they will confirm that the principles touted in this and her previous book are not Biblical. It is very sad to see people with a platform use it for personal glory and advancement and then claim to be a Christian. Once again, if this were being marketed to an exclusive secular audience then the views presented would be pretty typical. If you are a Christian however, you will find the contents to be contrary to the Bible.

It is like every motivational and self help speaker you ever listened to got quoted but not necessarily credited here. And sadly, for a book published by a Christian publisher and authored by a professing believer, there is a noticeable lack of Biblical support, some profanity, and ideas that just are not compatible with the Christian walk. I just can not recommend this to anyone.

I know I am in the minority by saying this, but this book is lacking and feels like it was rushed. In comparison to her other recent book, Girl Wash Your Face, this felt stretched out and did not contain original content. It is more of what she circulates on social media daily, tossed in with recycled ideas from other pioneering thought leaders. My guess is she felt pressure to keep her viability on the surface by getting something new out quick. As someone who loves a great business book, self growth, and actionable encouragement, I can not say I would recommend this one.

I am pretty disappointed in this book and I have learned a lot from the author. Her ten dreams goal way to plan out her life has made big changes in my life since I started implementing them last fall as did her gratitude practice. I enjoy her humor and her podcast, so it pains me to say that I did not find anything new or of substance in this book. This book felt like a product that was rushed to get to market after the success of Girl, Wash Your Face. I bought the book as a way to financially support the Hollis family as they have given so much free content out on their platforms this past year. It is a good thing that was my attitude because if I wanted to learn anything, I would have been even more disappointed.

I read Girl Wash Your Face and kind of enjoyed it. I found a lot of things in it that I was able to highlight but I did also disagree with a lot. In Girl Stop Apologizing, I found even less. In my opinion the author comes across as a snob. In one point in the book she talks about how her mother who was a single mom at the time threw her a party and she was ashamed of it and never wanted to be that way as a mom. For someone who was raised by a single mother that often struggled financially, I was extremely upset by this. She comes across as entitled and privileged. I understand that the author did struggle growing up, but I do not understand how she is saying she grew through her struggles, instead it looks like she ran from them instead of facing them head on.

Reposing my previous one star review because Amazon bizarrely removed the first one as somehow not complying with their community rules, which I found extremely interesting given that nothing in my original review was out of bounds and I have seen several other people comment that their negative reviews have also been removed. That said, I found this book to be vapid, unfulfilled, and had several moments of did I just read that correctly. I would post more but am afraid my review will get removed again.

I loved other book of this author, but found this book lacking the authenticity and heart of her other work. Yes, she is all about helping women obtain the tools they need to make their dreams come true, but much of her advice rings hollow when compared with reality. The difficulties she identifies overcoming are also so vastly overstated that I wondered if she had ever met anyone who was truly overweight, had suffered devastating life altering trauma, or was dealing with a problem that you will your way out of.

This book is awful and I will even go as far as to say it is one of the most poorly written books I have ever read. The author comes off as elitist and obnoxious in just about every page. It feels as though this book was written to meet a word count quota and not for actual content. It was so terrible, I actually think I lost brain cells reading it. The author will say it was not for me and that they do not care about reviews, but, truly, this book is garbage. This book is a waste of time and money. Even if you can get it for free at your public library, save yourself the time and choose something, anything else.

I wanted to like this book, I really did because I really liked her first book. And to be completely honest, I only made it forty eight pages in before I put it down and will return it. I could overlook some of the regurgitated material from the first book. I figure the author is trying to recap for those who have not read the first book yet. However, what I could not get past is her repeated use of profanity. There are much more intelligent ways to express a point than using profanity. And based off the title, she is not going to apologize about it, nor will she feel shame, which is sad since her target audience seems to be motivating Christian women.

Do not read this book and it is boastful and promotes a position that is contrary to scripture. I am saddened and disappointed to know that supposedly reputable christian publishers would want to be attached to a book like this that is so not in line with how we are to live as Christ followers. In addition, the promotional team is behaving badly. They are reporting one star reviews and trying to tip the scales. It is biased and not a true representation of what people really think. The four and five star reviews are largely written by the advanced copy readers of this author who are being coached to give only high reviews.