#149. Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat: Mastering the Elements of Good Cooking
#Samin Nosrat
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Salt-Fat-Acid-Heat-Mastering/dp/1476753830/ref=sr_1_26?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736452&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-26

I bought this as a gift for my sister and I flipped through it extensively when it came in. I love it so much I am going to buy two more, one for a friend and one for me. I am a very visual person and the pictures in here are awesome. I love that they are not photos, but rather hand drawn looking pictures done in a watercolor way. I love the recipes that are full page visuals. There is lots of humor throughout and make no mistake though, this is a cooking book, not a cookbook. It is teaching methods and how to techniques. There is a section in the back third of the book with recipes to apply all you have learned. I love everything about this book. I can not wait to really dive into my copy and I highly recommend it.

Best text about cooking I have ever read. It is both logical and fun so the lessons will stick. I would call it perfectly balanced, like a great meal. After reading the first several pages, I went poking around, only to discover that I was invited back to the beginning. You see, the book is about the journey, not the destination. It is clever, witty, helpful, intuitive, and altogether a pleasure to read.

This was an excellent, excellent book. I read it cover to cover over the course of about two weeks. Despite a lifetime of mediocre to occasionally excellent cooking, this definitely upped my game by giving me these four simple touchstones to examine each dish and ingredient through. When it comes to the science, it is a little light, and some aspects differ from other books in minor ways. The food lab is better suited for someone who is more technically minded and wants a better understanding of the why, and show me your data kind of answers to the kitchen. But if you are looking for first principles to get started cooking, or to kick up your habits and meals and the lens through which you will view them, then this is the best combination of education, recipes, and reference guides.

Buy this book and I ordered it when it first came out and, frankly, was overwhelmed by the amount of text. As the author predicted, I wanted to sneak ahead to the recipes and ignore her warnings to read and reread part one before moving forward. Over the course of a few months, I have picked up this book and casually read sections that piqued my interest. Now I really do feel comfortable in her recipes and I am following her suggested cooking lessons, which begin with something as simple as soaking and simmering beans to achieve optimal saltiness. Believe me, you probably do not know why you do what you do in the kitchen and this book will prove that. Also believe me, you are probably not salting your food enough, pull the trigger, enjoy.

This book is worth its weight in gold. The author shares an extraordinary skill set organized in easily understood teaching modules. Mediocre fresh green beans turned into flavorful wonders, buttermilk plus chicken roasted to flavor and tenderness heaven, Italian bread salad flavor testing and adjustment by the encouragement of this author. My guests were in awe and freely praised my cooking. Easily improve your cooking through easy lessons. Destined to be a classic. The author empowers the home cook, the real deal.

This is the most comprehensive and practical book I have bought on cooking. I started home cooking about two years ago. I started with the Great Courses cooking videos, then subscribed to one of the home delivery services to get some practice. So, I have repertoire of recipes and personal favorites. I immediately tried some of the techniques offered in the book modifying my approach and the results were a dramatic improvement in what I considered proven recipes. The book has a lot of recipes, but the value is in the how and why of cooking. The book promises that you can cook without recipes, and I believe this to be true with practice. On a hunch I bought the hardcover book instead of the Kindle version, I am glad I did. The descriptive artwork is wonderful, and the book has several fold out pages that would prove to be difficult on the Kindle.

I have not finished reading this, and it is so spectacular that I could not wait to add my two cents. In just the first section alone, there is enough information to transform every dish you make. I have almost forty years experience with gourmet cooking, and fifteen years of just plain good cooking. Yet nearly every bit of information on the proper way to salt is new to me, and diametrically opposed to all that I learned as a young woman. Cooking experts instructed you to add salt at the table, never before cooking because it will toughen meat or dry out food. At the same time, etiquette mavens decreed that salting the food on your plate was an insult to the hostess.

I am only 187 pages into this book, and I have already learned more about the real nuts and bolts of cooking that I have from Peterson. From the degrees of salt in various forms, to correct seasoning level for cooking pasta, the Salt chapter of this book has revolutionized my approach to pasta, sounds like a simple thing, I admit, but just this small adjustment convinced my wife I had purchased fresh pasta. Acid is another real difference maker, yet I never gave it its rightful place contiguously before this book woke me up. If you want to elevate your home cooking without going off to culinary school, do not miss this great book.

Good book and I enjoy reading about cooking rather than just reading recipes. I like to understand the whys and I knocked a star off because there have actually been a few minor science errors presented as fact. I cannot recall offhand but for a book proclaiming to teach understanding of cooking using science, it is a bit of a turn off having science errors, even minor. It was easy to overlook and move on, but I question how many other errors are there that I will not recognize offhand. I do not want to have to fact check everything that is claimed as science or fact. Otherwise seems to be pretty good in helping understand the basics of cooking.

It is a special addition, please, do not expect to be an ordinary cookbook. One we normally find techniques and plenty recipes. The present book, on the other hand, dives deep into the elements of good food, the nature and use of salt, fat, acid, as well as how to apply heat to prepare delicious food. It brings a profound knowledge in order to allow us to cook more harmonious and complex meals. More importantly, though, I feel this book brings a light in terms of inspiring us to be better food creators instead of food replicators. That is, instead of following recipes, we will want to try out new ideas, to put together our own desires. All in one, it is more than a book with recipes, it is a manual to understand the deep knowledge of how the basic elements work together in harmony and I sincerely recommend reading it.