#150. It's Not Supposed to Be This Way: Finding Unexpected Strength When Disappointments Leave You Shattered
#Lysa TerKeurst
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Its-Not-Supposed-This-Disappointments/dp/0718039858/ref=sr_1_29?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556736452&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656020011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-29

This is an easy read and it is not a book I would tell someone to read if they were going through a difficult time, necessarily. It is useful to see how she managed so many disappointments, but it did not really tell me anything I did not know or practice already. I have multiple, major health problems and I read as a source of distraction from pain.

The big problem the author faces is divorce. If you face earth shattering soul and heart crushing loss or life altering tragedy this book and it is sunny Jesus focused message will seem trite. The basic message is restated repeatedly. Might be most useful to a very young woman, young Christian with little life wisdom. For an older adult, the book is too theologically shallow.

I was really excited to read this book and the first half was wonderful but after about chapter six, I just felt it was heavy on being a bible lesson on what all Satans tactics were and to destroy us and light on how to get victory to overcome them. It was a struggle to get through the last few chapters. I did not feel encouraged like I had hoped I would by her process through this journey. Maybe it was because she was still in the journey and I do not know. I did want to throw the book like she said and this book just felt very doom and gloom to me.

Although this book has more scripture reference than other more recent books, it is still decidedly lacking in depth. If you want true comfort in a truly difficult time dig deep deep deep into God word, if you would like a coffee table read to perk you up a little then this is a great book. I love Lysa and her writing is good and it is just not deep enough.

I read this book because I am going through my own separation. I did a lot of highlighting one liners in this book, because they were so good, but I did find her own personal experience missing in this book. I feel we received more of her thoughts on her heart, than actual solid details about what caused them or what she was going through. I could say me too in a lot of her feelings, but felt myself wanting more. She dose not give much at all about her relationship to her husband, and maybe that is a good thing, to protect him. But I feel like she just missed the depth that she could have met women with in similar situations. I connect more with story, even in non fiction, and felt that her story was missing.

My heart bristles at this wording and our confidence it to be in God alone, not in our declarations. Though each statement the author makes is backed with a Bible verse, when phrased as I declare, the focus is taken off of God as our strength and placed on our very declaration. Declaring I will not does not make the declaration occur, to expect it to be so, is to set oneself up for disappointment. I would have loved to see these same statements made with a humble prayer, even begging God to let these things be true in our lives. Let the source of our strength be God alone, and our declarations be ones of praise for who he is. Let our fighting words be His Words, stored in our hearts and overflowing in our lives. While the bulk of the content of book was good, and the author had some very relatable, quotable material, I was not a fan of her writing style or the things already mentioned above. If I were to recommend a book regarding disappointments, I would be much more likely to recommend a book of another author.

I borrowed this from the library because I was excited they had on the shelf and really wanted to read it before purchase and I had to take it back. While her premise is good the style of the book drove me batty. Large swaths of white with stark black lettering may be fine for chapter headings but why are there whole pages in every chapter like this. Extremely choppy and I also do not need to be spoon feed the main idea of each section and again I would just get into what she was saying and it would end. Or have a short sentence with her main point, I can come to my own conclusions and would prefer to read without the choppiness. Truly disappointing, may try again but I doubt it.

I think we all go through times when we think it is not supposed to be this way. We make our plans and have our goals figured out, then life throws us a completely unexpected curve ball that we have to figure out how to deal with and that is what this book is about. It offers good reminders but is more vague than specific when sharing personal experiences. I kept wondering, but is what this person experienced really as bad as what I am dealing with and the answer is more than likely yes. Probably even worse, but it was hard to tell from the examples given. I think it is a great topic for a book but just did not dig in as deeply as I would have liked.

I cringed through a lot of this book, and honestly I did not even finish the final couple of chapters. I have not read any of other books, but this one made me think the author is really going to regret putting it all out there in a few years. The devastation of her husband affair is enormous, and I have nothing but mercy for her and them in this process. However, it really seems to me that such a huge and personal ordeal is better kept close, not for public scrutiny. Although I trust that heart of Lysa is to help others in difficult situations, the book was often offering up trite, Christian bumper sticker slogans. I get the impression that Lysa is trying to convince herself of truth and goodness through this process and well she should. And I pray she has many people surrounding her, lifting up her arms and standing in the gaps for her now, but it all feels so still in process, like this might be a season for her to step out of the limelight and not try to be useful to the Christian community. It is a season where some deep wounds need time to heal, not a time to be in the limelight, almost capitalizing on the opportunity to write another book. I think the journal entries should best be between herself and God, or perhaps some close, trusted friends, not the whole world, at least not until a significant time has passed and that is just my two cents. It is okay to be silent and press into the Lord and he will care for her flock in the meantime.

I liked the honesty of this author about herself, her situations, and her journey. The first half of the book was very transparent, with expressing herself in ways I could relate to. But the second half of the book began to feel trite to me like I was beginning to read pat answers to life questions that have no pat answers, thus this book felt disappointing.