#151. Unfreedom of the Press
#Mark R. Levin
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Unfreedom-Press-Mark-R-Levin/product-reviews/1476773092/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

The press is the enemy and that claim did not originate with Donald Trump, in the modern era, it originated with Richard Nixon. Richard Nixon was right then, and Trump is right now. In this book, this author concisely and provocatively shows why that was true fifty years ago, why it is true today, and what we can do about it. I could use more words to review this book, but the author says it better. Read this book, then take action.

I received this book in my mailbox a couple hours ago. I am one chapter in and this is a great source of information. The author puts all his sources in the back of the book so you can check the information yourself. Like many of Marks other books there is not much opinion, I can tell already the author spent a lot of time in the research phase of this writing. I am so pleased with this purchase I had to immediately review. I will update this review after I am done reading. I would suggest getting the hard back for your collection, but also get a electronic copy as well. In the electronic version you can look up the information instantly, highlight and take notes all in one place.

I read this book while nodding my head up and down so many times that my chin is sore. The premise of this book is well known to all conservatives, but it is useful for the fact that the author has compiled all this information in one concise volume. Undeniably so, the problem is, the people who need to read it most, will not. Do not look for the author to be interviewed by Chuck Todd, or to appear on other press. This author is right, honest journalism going the way of the dodo bird. So now what, what is to be done. The left also controls the schools, so do not count on journalism schools to reform themselves, to restore integrity and professionalism to reporting. The author does a better job of reporting on this problem than the Times or the Post could ever do on a tiddlywinks contest.

So if you are a supporter of the press as it exists today, you are going to hate this book. This author shines a very bright light on this aspect of our society and how it has slid into the mess it is today and how it was not a recent slide but it is only recently that people are becoming aware of the daily deception and twisting of reporting of events in order to shape opinions. Mark is a brilliant author who is exceptionally researched in his efforts. If you are serious about this subject, no matter which side of the aisle you are on, this book will enrage you at the media. I could not put this book down, it reads more like an excellent novel and buy it now and enjoy.

Excellent book, the book will really make you think. It is even made me consider getting into journalism, crazy right. Also, notice not a single one of the poor reviews is a verified purchase and yet nearly every one of the positive reviews is. The author works hard to move the argument forward and I and millions of others thoroughly appreciate that, thank you.

What the author has to say is epic, to say the least. The topic is more important than anyone can appreciate. I have not yet read the book, but looking forward to the factual information on past and present state of the press. But, on receiving the book and not to seem childish, the look of the cover art is most inciting. Nice job to whoever did that, the book just sitting out on a table or nondescript area begs for attention, seriously, nice cover work.

This is a lesson in history and well written and drawn from many sources, the author explains the emergence of partisan media and how destructive it has become. The American constitution is the gold standard of constitutions and it is so sad to read how some of the biased media manipulate and spin events to suit their own narrative. The USA is a beacon for the rest of the world. Politics is a dirty game, but nothing can be more dirtier than a media that promotes a destructive narrative and using their interpretation of the constitution and Journalism as cover to spin the news rather than reporting it. The emergence of fake news is a product of the new age form of media reporting. This book will become a reference source for years to come and the author is to be congratulated on the depth of referencing historical and present day fact to show that indeed there is this book.

Have you ever wondered why the main stream media all repeats the same talking points over and over and then pivots to new talking points. Have you ever wondered why the two points of views out there are so extremely different. Have you ever wondered How Hitler got away with doing atrocities for so long and nothing was done until after millions were murdered. This book will give you some insight on those topics and more. It talks about how our media is a big propaganda machine for the left and how it got that way. The author does not pull punches and he is a historian and a constitutional scholar and I am horrified by what I learned.

Excellent book, references and examples throughout the book. This book is a worthwhile book to read if you consider yourself an independent thinker. But better yet, if you buy mainstream media news as truthful you should especially read this. Personally, I do not trust the media from Trump to health news. They are propagandist liars who hate the American people and our way of life. I hope some of American are prosecuted for their crimes against America. American are willfully participating in a coup of our US President, thanks for a great book.

The author expertly illustrates how important the press was in shaping early America and what lead to the revolutionary war, a fight for liberty, freedom, and the pursuit of happiness. The current media making claims that president trump is attacking freedom of the press and abusing power, colluding with Russia while ignoring abuses by deep state actors to destroy his presidency and remove him from office. The author provides a history lesson of real abuses of power by previous democrat administrations and real collusion in previous campaigns, and other transgressions that the media in those days turned a blind eye. In the end and despite grumbling from media folk that they are under attack, it is the media who is destroying the freedom of the press. The author points out that a free press is Important in preserving our constitutional republic. Current media is not preserving freedom.