#152. The Mueller Report
#The Washington Post
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Mueller-Report-Washington-Post/product-reviews/1982129735/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I downloaded the free edition, plus I purchased this edition, as well as the audio book edition because I lived through Watergate. I, as well as any American, well understand the potential impact of this investigation and just how many years into our future this report might define the political battleground. And, make no doubt about it, it could be the opening shots in American Second Civil War. The question before us is that will our second civil war be similar to 1860, or will it be more akin to our Cold War with the Soviet Union, that could all be an over statement. With our current President first welcoming the Mueller Report as Totally exonerating Trump, then alleging that those who aided Mueller as being Traitors, I do not believe it possible to out Trump the President. To quickly learn just why Trump has done such an about face, skip forward to the beginning. You will note just how serious the warranted charges against the President are, or could be, if the House of Representatives does proceed with impeachment.

If you are interested in your country and not your political party then you need to read this report. I have had the report for one hour and I have only read one hundred pages. But already I can see that all the knowledge that I have gleamed from news media of all forms is exceedingly small and confused. This report on investigation is what we all need to review. I have read the full introduction and analysis and now I am into the investigation of the Russian attack on our elections, our country. As a summary report it is fantastic so far, it is detailed and it is organized to be read through in a short time, a couple of days, what it is not, is a political report. Stop yelling and beating your chest because of a couple football players take A knee during the national anthem, but beat your chest and scream loudly about the cyber attack by Russia upon our elections.

The Mueller Report is an historical document whose meaning will only be fully appreciated over time. What makes that fact immediately apparent is the up to the minute, additional reporting and commentary provided by the Washington. Providing background and depth to the actual report, the brilliant journalists offer contextual analysis, adding value and historical context which illustrates how brilliant the Washington Post is in the first place, and how lucky we are to have them.

Tremendously important document, both volumes are included in this book, and there is an excellent introduction by staff people from the Washington Post. There is also a very long list and brief descriptions of all of the key individuals mentioned in the study. This list can be referred back to so that you do not lose track of the various personalities and who they are. Good annexes, including important court documents, are also included. The first volume of the report addresses Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and is heavily redacted in important areas. The second volume deals with issues of obstruction of justice and this second volume has almost no redactions. The redactions in both volumes are in black ink with the reason for those reactions noted in white print within the blacked out area.

I have a Kindle, but decided to buy the paperback version of the Mueller report and I am so glad I did. There is just something about being able to physically view, on paper, two pages at a time with all the footnotes that makes this an easier read. Being able to skip back and reference previous pages without losing your place or creating Kindle bookmarks is helpful. Also the ability to use post it flags and dry highlighters makes it easier to get through and reference. I love my Kindle but encourage you to try the paperback version.

We have all lived through the endless lies and red herrings Trump have thrown out on a daily basis to confuse and enrage Americans. And yet, knowing of all this only through the media, which has been remarkably balanced and truthful, reading the Mueller report wipes away so much of the false smoke and mirrors and shows Trump and his accomplices as traitors acting to undermine our democracy, our allies, our values. If Trumps base would read this, they would demand he resign immediately.

The content is well put together and everything is interesting and there is no political commentary. The introduction, list of individuals and time line add a great deal, and those will be especially useful in the future when memory fades. Ten key documents comprise the last third of the book, starting with the Appointment Order of Rod Rosenstein and ending with the now famous four page letter from Attorney General Barr summarizing the investigation. I imagine some would regard that section as excessive but I think many would regard it as an essential resource. I have a big problem with this book, however, the single spaced type of the report is hard on the eyes. I think I will keep this book for a long time, but I might look for a larger size book just for reading the report itself.

I am amused that law students have to take a course called legal writing. The Mueller report is, indeed, legal writing. Nevertheless, it is clear, well organized, and thorough. You have to go through the legal gyrations to understand that no evidence of collusion, having not interviewed Trump or his family members, is not the same as no collusion. So, if you are bored and have a long rainy weekend, go for it. You might want to add, as a humorous diversion, Rick Wilson Everything Trump Touches Dies, hilarious.

I actually bought both the kindle and print editions and the print edition to have something in hand. The kindle edition to take with me anywhere, but I am actually finding it easier to read the report on my laptop, from the original version. I do agree that the print edition paper is flimsy, but, that is the price to be paid for producing something so large, so quickly. And, really, the report is so large, it would be better to eventually produce the print edition in multiple volumes. That way, this book can not be printed on thicker paper, and bound better. The nature of this report makes it almost unreadable on a kindle.

The font is probably the minimal size for legibility. I am not surprised other customers are having problems with it. I have problems with the small font too but I will still try to read the report, Washington Post, older readers are more likely to want the paper version of the report and you know what our eyesight is like. Also, the paper is the cheap paper that mass paperbacks are printed on. The book includes other important documents connected with the investigation and they show intelligent selection by Wash Post staff. The other alternative on Amazon is to buy the version with intro by the author. No way I am buying that book and give royalties to the author. Read the reviews of the author book and you will find out why.