#153. Girl, Wash Your Face: Stop Believing the Lies About Who You Are so You Can Become Who You Were Meant to Be
#Rachel Hollis
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Girl-Wash-Your-Face-Believing/product-reviews/1400201659/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I so wanted to like this book, with glowing recommendations from friends and family and a five star review I bought this book and it was a waste of money. A train wreck of a book with horrible structure and no real solid content. It was a book of fluff and humble bragging from a privileged elite woman. While I appreciate Hollis intent to encourage women I feel she misses the mark by a mile, she gives supposedly Christian advice based on misinterpreted Bible verses and non Biblical themes. I warn that this book does not support Biblical teachings at all and even seems to provide the readers with ways to justify their sin instead of follow a Godly lifestyle. Sadly, I missed the return deadline and I am not sure what to do with the book as I do not recommenced it to anyone because of the false witness that it bears.

I got fished by this book, based on the reviews and description, I was expecting it to be entertaining, well written, and motivational, it was not. The examples Rachel used In the book to make her points are terrible, rambling, and often off topic. Her life is blessed beyond belief but she writes as if she has, and still is, overcoming extreme odds. She tries to be relatable, but just comes off as very out of touch. I would have loved to hear more about how she built her business or overcame tough family situations, but instead leaned about the time she made fun of a girl for having toe hair.

I tried, I really did, people who I admire, who possess discernment and good judgment, recommended this book via social media platforms, so I bought it. I have tread to read it and I do not think I can finish it and I am saying this while bored and bed ridden, recovering from surgery. There is nothing new or authentic in this book. It feels phony and disingenuous and like an opportunity for the author to self congratulate herself for being fabulous. There is so much more I could say, but so many others have already said it in pages of one star reviews. I am seriously bummed I spent my money on it.

I tried many times to read this book. Had high hopes because so many people I knew were reading it. When I expressed my frustration, someone said it was not meant for older women. Guess that explains a lot, maybe I should have taken the girl in the title a bit more literally. All the me was just more than I could handle. Seemed more like an autobiography than a self help book.

I thought there would be some insight that was a hard won lesson for her that she wanted to share as a mother and entrepreneur but it was so much fluffy content and common sense that I regretted reading it. As someone who reads a lot of inspirational books this one fell very short, and really makes me wonder what women are reading this, if they think this is of substance or inspirational. Nothing to sink your teeth into, disappointed.

Really bad, I do not usually write book reviews unless the book is just outstanding or amazing. I could not even finish this one. After reading reviews and posts about how much people loved it, I am perplexed. The story is completely not relatable and I am the demographic target for this book and I found nothing relatable in her Go Me stories. As a matter of fact, I can not imagine anyone who is not considered wealthy would relate to her. It is more of an account of a woman who married up and how she thinks she is found some kind of actualization and you should too. Just marry up, get some therapy, and go on European vacations to have unlimited access to excellent health care and own your own million dollar business and you can be actualized too.

I really hate to even say it but with the hype surrounding this book and people saying it is a christian book and this book is falsely advertised. Everything the author writes about is about how she deals with things in life but at the end of the day no where does it come out saying that the one place will receive true peace and healing is through Christ and Him alone. Coping mechanisms are not a true way to heal from past hurts. Also it does matter what religious background you have and what God you serve because there is only one god.

I wanted to like this book so bad and all of my friends were raving about it. But honestly, this book was horrendous to get through. The author seems to want to make everyone happy and therefore refrains from having any strong opinions. There was no real substance to this book. She used many of the personal development one liners heard a billion times. I appreciate her life struggles and bravery in sharing them. But if you are a novice in personal development or have even dived in a little, you probably will not get much from this book. This book may be great for someone new to young women. As a thirty seven year old she left me cringing everytime I turned on the audio. It was painful to listen but I wanted to like this book so much I pushed through.

I wish I could take back the time I wasted reading this book, but I could not even finish it. For someone who proclaims Christ, this book should not even be considered in the same realm as Christian books. Filled with moments from her own life and how she has self love and made it through. No mention of him who gives us strength and courage. And my return window has closed so now I have his drivel on my shelf. Off to the used bookstore it goes, hopefully to trade in for a better read, but honestly should just go in the trash so no one else has to endure it.

If I could give this zero stars I would, this book is designed to prey upon women in a vulnerable state and creates a tony robbing style of dictation that is honestly unraveled and unhelpful. It completely ignores experiences outside of the privileged white woman, and what struggles this woman has gone through are thrown in your face to make you feel bad about yourself for not being able to overcome every obstacle real or imagined. I was disgusted that this woman married her emotional abuser and her message that he was better to her once she had self respect is absolute nonsense. Self respect is great, but if you do not have it that does not give someone license to treat you like trash, the feigned spirituality and imperfection anecdotes are both thoughtless and worthless. While I am not religious, I would still be offended if I was by the inaccurate and irrelevant sprinkling of The Lord throughout the book and the comparison of accumulation of wealth as representative of success.