#16. Sea of Memories
#Fiona Valpy
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Sea-Memories-Fiona-Valpy-ebook/dp/B06Y5PSTB5/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_sims?ie=UTF8

The one thing I did like about this book, was that it has a strong female lead character and I did, however, find the story a bit hard to get my teeth into initially but it did pick up the pace and the story line got very interesting. Action, adventure, love found, love lost, love found, but not in the normal way or romance novels. This was better, set in England and in France spanning the years of war and in wartime, ending in post war times, the lives of two families, bonded by old and new friendships. I became invested in the lives of the four main characters, wanting to see how they all eventually came to live a life entwined in what was a dramatic time in our history, a better story than I first thought.

This is one of the best books I have ever read and I have read hundreds over the years. The author has woven together a beautiful tale about various types of love. The main character granddaughter serves as the story narrator as she pieces together her dying grandmother life. As the books progresses, the reader begins to put the puzzle together, but not until the final chapter do all the pieces come together. This story will have you laughing sometimes, weeping at other points, and feeling like you see and know the main players. At times, you will laugh and smile. At other points you will find yourself sad, but throughout the entire story the beauty and joy of various types of love will enchant you and make you think. Definitely geared for an adult female audience, and anyone who has ever loved another will be captivated by the story.

I received this kindle version from a Goodreads Giveaway and I absolutely loved this book. The authors descriptions are so lyrical, I could just envision the surroundings so clearly. I loved the story line, and was so moved by Anna torment and struggles, the emotions of her love for Christophe and Angus also. Anna learned so much through her life and was able to give sound advice to Kendra from it. Delightful book, I look forward to reading more from this author.

Once again Fiona Valpy writing creates an atmosphere that puts you right there and I could hear the ocean and feel the warm breeze. Here characters are so real, you want to have lunch with them by the seashore.

This was my first time reading this author. I am now hooked by Fiona Valpy writing. What a Beautiful story of friendship, loves, motherhood, life choices. A Sea of Memories is the perfect title and the stories contained in this book take you away. My eyes have been opened to see and notice and appreciate the love I have in my life. Read this book and let Fiona take you to another time and place.

This is a long story told in present day and the past by Ella, the grandmother to Kendra, who is at the end of her life. It is beautifully written, the pace and rhythm are soothing and comforting. It is a story of first loves and last loves, the hope and despair that often is present in our romantic relationships. It is a story of forgiveness and if you are a fan of Kate Morton this story reminds me of hers, and you will find this book very satisfying.

Sea of Memories is a wonderfully warm and emotional story and my father created a series of audio tapes for me and my siblings of his life including the depression, WWII, meeting my mom and life with all of his children and his grandchildren. Sea of Memories invokes the same emotions I feel when I listen to my dad life story, once you understand your parents or grandparents lives, the lessons of life that they leave behind become valuable gifts for your future.

What an enjoyable read, the vivid descriptions of places and scenes transported me into that world making me oblivious to my own surroundings. The deep understanding of each character carried me through to the end in love and concern for their feelings and the story line also lends itself to the readers personal events in life. Teaching lessons that are learned from the wisdom of life shared by a grandparent, very magical writing, thank you for this holiday into a world never visited in real life.

I read your story because it was given four stars and yes, it very much deserves four stars and I loved your story. It was very interesting telling of the war, yet also with a love story. This is special because I am sure that I will enjoy reading it more than once, thank you for this beautiful book.

I borrowed this book from kindle unlimited but after finishing it, I bought it for my collection. It is an amazing story of the recollections of a grandmother recounted to her granddaughter and the wonderful life lessons learned by the granddaughter. There is a little intrigue and I never did correctly guess the various outcomes in the story line. This is one of the best books I have read this year, highly recommend it.