#162. Body Language: Secrets of Body Language - Female Body Language. Learn to Tell if She's Interested or Not!
#James Beckett
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Body-Language-Secrets-Language-Interested-ebook/product-reviews/B0085PH1E0/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

This book is a clear and well crafted guide to the ins and outs of body language. Interpreting body language accurately is a major component of Emotional Intelligence, which drives success. As the authors say, body language dose not lie, so learning to send and receive appropriate signals, including micro expressions, fleeting facial expressions, can be the key to successful dating, interviewing, networking, negotiating, and team interactions. There is a fine line between confident body language and negative body language, aggressive, having the opposite of intended effect, and this book gives helpful insights to both sides as well as practice exercises designed to improve interpretation of body language. In short, body language is an additional channel of communication that we overlook at our own peril. If you want to be sure that your overall body or being is in sync with the words coming out of your mouth, you need to read this book.

Wonderful healing book, Inna gives you the healing practice for the illness that you create through your mind, explains the emotions that you may have caused the illness, and also the colors to work with when healing. Best I have ever read and put into practice. Everyone should have a copy of this book and work with it for better health, easy to read and practice. I had a stomach complaint, looked up Stomach looked up Stomach in the book, did the healing that was advised in the book and worked with it every morning and visualizations of the colors and emotions, after a short time, the stomach pains had gone. I would highly recommend this book for everyone to have, and practice the healing techniques, brilliant book.

I am a woman, and I must say, from a woman perspective not all of the body language signals mentioned here are completely accurate. I am no expert, but given the highly individualistic and subjective nature of body language, I think this book did a good job in discussing the more commonly observed ones. What this book successfully made me realize though is that I send confusing mixed signals to guys I like. So I used this book for a different purpose altogether, learning how to send the correct signals. This discusses female body language cues for different situations and for different stages in a relationship, from courtship to the couples stage. What men should take away from this is that most women can send mixed signals, so do not lose hope if she is not necessarily sending the positive ones noted in the book. Women are complicated and I know that sucks but there you go.

Body language is a significant component of human interaction. If you are, for example, presenting a lecture before an audience on a scientific theory, much less than fifty percent of your communication is likely to be nonverbal. The body language signal you are focusing on is almost the same in both cases, but it is meaning is very much not. Body language is a package deal, what one part of her body is doing should be reflected in other regions, helping you put the full picture together. Overall much learned from this guidebook, thanks for the author.

This book was actually what I was searching for. It dose not go into each sort of normal body signal, yet unquestionably enough to keep you occupied for some time. Following I began perusing this book I started to see the practices in myself and my associates. I think this book is progressively helpful for understanding individuals in social or individual circumstances since it is a lot less demanding to precisely peruse somebody not verbal communication in a cleaner or increasingly normal state, exceedingly suggested.

This book by James Beckett and Lionel Rose, I believe to be excellent for a man who wants and needs to know what a woman is thinking, whether he indeed stands a chance with her. So, this could be a very important book to any male playing the dating game, or the relationship game since there is a chapter or two on figuring out what in really going on in his present relationship. Fifty to eighty percent of human communication is nonverbal and there are signals being sent non verbally that I know for a fact that I have been missing. Just thinking back I realized a few, that have been pointed out by the authors, that went right over my head. I like their treatment of the various zones, such as the Intimate Zone, but the part I liked best was the eyes and if she sees you checking her out and whether she quickly looks away or returns you smile and how long she looks back at you. Lots of good tips in this book that will change the life of many men who read it.

If you are as blur as me on not verbal depictions, then I strongly recommend that you buy the book. It will be a book which you could refer and gain value for the rest of your life. Moving into the workforce and have not been able to understand my colleagues treatment of me. Now learning how to see what the bodies give away and to know if they will continue to use and discard me or be real friends.

This is a great book for men wanting to find out if a female is really into you. By just following there body language a man can learn a lot from a female. This book provides an introduction on what to look out for eyes, surrounds, touching, smile, legs, feet, and the other parts of the body. Knowing what to look out for, will give you a greater advantage to your peers who are not aware of female body language.

Extraordinary precedents on the best way to peruse people groups not verbal communication, for example how would you have supper. Do you eat one thing at any given moment and afterward go to the following, do you eat a tad of everything, do you blend the sustenance up. You can educate a lot regarding somebody on how they eat.

For me, it was always very hard to understand if women or girl is interested in me or no. I always only talked to females, but never looked at position of their body or other signs. And this was not very effective, but in this book, I found an explanation of many situations that I had in past. After this book you will simply understand if any girl is interested in you. This is very good book that I recommend to any men, good written and very practical.