#163. Women Rowing North: Navigating Life’s Currents and Flourishing As We Age
#Mary Pipher
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Women-Rowing-North-Navigating-Flourishing-ebook/dp/B07FLDP872/ref=sr_1_48?qid=1559117661&s=books&sr=1-48

I adore this author and expected her book on navigating life currents and flourishing as we age, to be my new favorite must read recommendation. My enthusiasm wilted as it dawned that the book often sounds like part of my mother generation than four years my senior who graduated from high school at the dawn of the conscious raising sixties, grew up solidly in the Therapeutic Age. Where I was expecting book relevant to every part of our nation, Women Rowing North seems to largely, not exclusively. One is a pleasant acquaintance of mine who lives in Phila, feature examples and anecdotes from what seem to be solidly middle class, heartland women, makes sense, since that is where the author practices, but limits its effectiveness, at least to this reader. Strikes me that a more apt title would be White Midwestern Well Educated Upperish Middle Class Women Rowing North.

The first pages are excellent, which is why I purchased, having read a sample on my Kindle. Then the same old generalities began re how women, in this case older women, suffer at the hands of cultural stereotypes. Although I am well past my prime, I have never felt invisible or marginalized. I get that many younger people, especially younger people in passing, may have little interest in me, but this does not offend me. I felt exactly the same way when I was their age, and, frankly, their age group holds little interest for me at this point in my life. The first pages were worthwhile, but I stopped reading by page thirty or so. I was looking for more than a rehash of feminist precepts, repackaged for aging Baby Boomers. This is not the trailblazing book I was hoping for.

I cannot think of living, or aging, without the impact of faith, no matter where that comes from. That is not particularly evident here. Unfortunately, after reading positive reviews in two major publications, I found I did not get much value from this book. I would read it all before elsewhere. Endless tales of tragedy and suffering threaded throughout the book certainly happen in life. I am not shying away from misery and I have had much myself, but I was looking for strength and fortitude and resilience and a more spirited attitude. For far better writing that conveys all of that, try Jan Morris memoir, In My Mind Eye and she is an old excellent writer of note, living with and caring for her partner, who has dementia, in a cottage in rural Wales and she knows how to write. She is feisty, inquisitive, adventurous, despite health problems, she marches up and down in front of her home, singing old hymns and songs out loud. Her words on art are especially powerful and have stayed with me. In this book the most memorable moments were quotes from Eleanor Roosevelt and Cheryl Strayed and the print is small.

I found the first few chapters of this book very meaningful and powerful, however, in later chapters, I felt the author was saying older women need to find love with a partner and grandchildren or else they are doomed to a lonely and unhappy old age. I am in my sixties, and have managed to find a great deal of happiness even though I never married and do not have grandchildren. Pipher needed to listen to her own advice in the second half of her book. We make our own happiness and by implying that we need to find happiness in others she is saying women find their happiness in the traditional roles of mate and mother and I do not agree.

I heard Mary Pipher on radio and enjoyed her interview, so I ordered the book. Technically she is a good writer, however, it was so very depressing to read that I wanted to throw it across the room. But I kept thinking it can not be this awful, so I skimmed through it to the last section and finally it had a few good points that I could easily have read in magazine or on line without reading the depressing first third or forth of the book. Overall, it left me feeling depressed and sad about aging and I am only seventy three, do not buy this book.

I have read many of the books of this author, most were excellent. I had great hopes for this one, the title is great, the topic is relevant, however, while the prose is nice, in my humble opinion. The author appears to be out of touch with the average aging woman and she uses lots of good quotes, and makes some valid points, most of which women over sixty five already know, but can not do much about cultural ageism. Unfortunately, it just seems like the same fluff and stuff over and over that feel gratitude and joy even as we accept life as it is. This says to me, suck it up honey, there is no special place to row towards except our final demise.

My book group is reading this and I am the youngest in the group at sixty one. The author has written other books well and I could not finish this one. This book is too much like the Platte River, very wide, no depth. One hundred pages in, I had not read anything, other than the contents of the preface, that I did not already know. The stories she tells are not of women flourishing, but of women languishing. As alternatives, I recommend Conscious Living, Conscious Aging, or Being Mortal, much better books on the third chapter of life.

This was a very wordy book, giving example after example, using only first names and it was hard to tell when she was changing the person in the example or talking about the same one. Several of us were reading and discussing this together and wondered if age had caught up with the author. Some of the subject matter was good for discussion but the writing of it left a lot to be desired.

I was bored throughout this entire book and I kept waiting for some insightful comment and never got one. This book read a bit like a memoir and I suspect the author got more out of writing the book than this reader got out of reading it. The book posits that the mature woman path is unique and requires special skills. First, I do not think aging is any easier or harder for men than it is for women. Second, the same skills that get an individual through other challenges in life work equally well in the mature stage of life. This was one of the least satisfying books I have read lately.

I found this book very depressing and the subtitle mentions flourishing as we age, but this book seems to focus more on gritting your teeth and getting through it. This book spends much of its time discussing all the negatives and how one needs to manage themselves to cope with these problems. Even the chapter on grandchildren is largely about difficulties. There is so much joy available as we age, but this book does not seek it out. Perhaps the book is a good warning about how your perspective colors what you see and feel.