#164. When Breath Becomes Air
#Paul Kalanithi
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/When-Breath-Becomes-Paul-Kalanithi-ebook/dp/B00XSSYR50/ref=sr_1_49?qid=1559117686&s=books&sr=1-49

As a cancer survivor I expected to love this book, I did not. It was beautifully written and very in depth but I just felt no emotional connection to the writer at all, and I am not sure why. Maybe it was just too technical for my uneducated brain. What I got from him and my own experience is that you should never give up, believe you will get well always. Sadly he did not get well and that is tragic, but his life was not a tragedy, it was full of hope, and while going through chemo treatments hope was everything to me.

The promise was a book that looked at the meaning of life from the perspective of someone with a very unique and tragic and situation and background. But never delivered, more just an interesting memoir of the author which never got to his thoughts on these interesting questions. His death while writing the book may have had a lot to do with it but would have been good to know what I was getting into. Interesting and heartbreaking story, but nothing more.

I realize I may be going against the grain, but I thought this book would have more revelations and insights about life and death than it did. So many people had recommended this book to me, and I was shocked by just how self absorbed and pompous Paul came across. I found him not to be relatable, disingenuous, and arrogant. This book exhaustively discussed his professional achievements with a few personal vignettes thrown in there that did not necessarily contribute to the overall premise of the book and seemed more like fluff.

Never could quite warm up to the author. Perhaps it is because the writer, an admittedly good writer, was also a neurosurgeon and neuron scientist. I think he wrote above the average the head of the reader, not so much in his vocabulary but in his philosophic search for the meaning of death and what makes life worth living. He seemed to finally feel anchored with the birth of his daughter. If I had it to do over again, I would pass on this book.

Who cannot but admire the courageous acceptance of fate in the story of this author, but it was all too much grace, sweet, too pleasant, with no rage, anger or despair. This author may have been almost superhuman but I struggled to find the real emotion here, something that I could relate to if I discovered suddenly that I was going to die soon, leaving behind life unlived and unexamined. I would be consumed by bitterness and anger, fully aware that they would not survive me, but still wanting to leave it on paper for someone later to find similar to their own experience. Bitterness, rage, anger, these makes as human as love, hope, tender kindness, indeed they alert us that those prettier emotions are not enough in the world into which we are born, and shall die. Maybe the metaphor is our coffee, adequately bitter, even without sugar, to wake you up to life in the morning. Almost no one likes a entirely bitter taste, somewhat more like something entirely sugary, but coffee, bitterness with some milk, some sugar, that is when life begins to make some sense.

All I feel after reading this book is sad and I have seen several people die, and I find nothing of value in it other than it becomes a relief when inevitable to end suffering, not only of the patient, but those who love him or her. Reading this tragic story of this young man who worked so hard and had so much to offer, only to have it end pointlessly in death is sad and frustrating. You wonder if he would had better medical care sooner could they have saved him, probably not, but still, maybe. And if the author, a doctor, can not get good medical care what about the rest of us. There is a resolution to his quest for meaning in the book, that being his logical conclusion that there is a God. It is the conclusion that billions of other people have also made because when you get to the end you stop and look around, and you decide there must be a supreme intelligent planner and there must be a purpose. And with that we submit, or sometimes fling, ourselves into the arms of the God we have only, until then, only heard about.

Paul writes well and his courageous and authentic account of his struggle with death and his self confessed loss of identity could be useful to many. When we are caught up in the self identity that a good career brings us, this book is a good reminder of the ephemeral nature of it. However beyond that I found the book lacking in depth and lacking in answers. I was looking for something that went deeper to the very roots of death like Dying to be me of Anita.

Tough to rate, this guy was an excellent writer, and surely a better neurosurgeon, a crime that his life was so short. Being a cancer survivor and in the medical field myself, I found myself screaming at the kid when he kept ignoring his symptoms, cancer is always best caught early. Ashamed that we doctors ignore symptoms in ourselves too long. again, his writing about his life is superb, however, the summary of the book I read on amazon and led me to expect that he found some deep philosophical thoughts on the meaning of life, or rather why we strive to stay alive. I think he would have, yet his book, and thoughts on the subject took a back seat to his battle for his own life, a very touching and well written book nonetheless. The summary should have been more on the lines of an extremely bright surgeon memoir.

This is a good review of medical training in neurosurgery, mixed with some personal cancer anecdotes. The writer wants to ask and ask and ask the big questions when facing his death, and confides a few paragraphs of contemplation, but no answers. The go to book for asking the big questions and getting the answers in the face of death is The Blood of the Lamb, published in 1939. The author of that book confronts the struggle of his daughter with leukemia, if you want answers, look here, not there.

A book like this is always a page turner because we are curious as to how we would face impending death and therefore relish the opportunity to see it through the eyes of one who is experiencing this first hand. The surface story, of course, is the tragic death of a young physician with great potential who will never see the physical rewards of his labor, and in a larger sense, the loss for all of us who are to be deprived of his passion and skill. But this is no different from countless young men and women whose lives are cut short by disease, war, starvation, accident, or suicide, for all have potential and most would have enriched the lives of those around them. The deeper story, the one that leaves us hanging, is the halting dialogue with God as he emerges from the comfortable lifestyle of academic atheism into a growing realization that biology does not explain meaning, and that the sum of our nucleic acid products is much smaller than who we are. Whether author took the journey farther we are not given the privilege to know, and the reader is left expecting more from this brilliant young doctor who is looking into an eternity. Although he knows that he has that there is more than a funeral and a headstone or even an heir, he appears to end his quest at that juncture. The author gives us a glimpse into his private thoughts during his journey into mortality and on balance, despite being embraced in the love of his family to the end, the reader is left with more of a feeling of loss than of hope.