#168. Meditations (AmazonClassics Edition)
#Marcus Aurelius
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Meditations-AmazonClassics-Marcus-Aurelius-ebook/product-reviews/B07QQRGH6R/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

First, do we all recognize that the author of this text, Marcus Aurelius, was a Roman Emperor. If so, why have I not been forced to read this from a young age. This is quite possibly the most insightful, existential book I have ever read. Emperor Aurelius has given us wisdom in its purest form. This should be a manual for every human life. Every sentence is mind numbingly profound. This book is so good, that I might just have the entire text tattooed on my body. I cannot stress enough that the sagacity of this book is beyond what I have ever read, definitely a must read and a must live by.

If you are apt to reading philosophy, profound books that give you insight into the universe and your place in it, I cannot think of any greater book than the Meditations. Marcus Aurelius has been called Plato philosopher king, and though I disagree with this, I see the point that he ruled the Roman Empire near its greatest extent with the virtues of fundamental stoicism. He did not want or consent to Plato Republic, but he put his duties, his loved ones, and his country before his own interests. Marcus Aurelius rejected luxury and comfort and he wrote to remind himself to lead by example, that he is the master of himself, that emotions cannot puppeteer him, and that pleasures cannot warp his logic and his will to do good. Marcus Aurelius reminded himself to always be favorable to all that came by him, even those that disagreed with him and spoke ill of him, for he believed they were brought to the earth to work together. Marcus Aurelius rejected unreasonable condemnation and unhelpful criticism as well as praise and arrogant pride. Marcus Aurelius looked to correct, not condemn, the ignorant, and stand agreeable and thankful, not prideful and bashful, when corrected. Marcus Aurelius praised the universe for her inner workings, borrowing from Plato idea that all that is natural must in turn be good, if not for the individual, then for the whole, which then must still be good for the individual regardless. The metaphysics of Marcus Aurelius are not scientifically sound, the same for Plato, a large influence, but they do tap into the imagination.

There are a lot of translations of the Meditations out there and most of them are very difficult to read. This is because the translators are doing their best to provide the reader with a translation that is faithful to the original language, which was, I believe, Ancient Greek which seems kind of odd, considering he was a Roman. Of the three translations that I struggled with, this is probably the most coherent. I am not an ancient Greek scholar so I can not testify to the accuracy of the translation but I can tell you that, of all the three English translations that I looked at, this one came off as the most coherent which, in retrospect, is really not saying much because some of it was still pretty rough going, especially near the end of the book. Nevertheless, if you want to become familiar with this particular stoic philosophy, I would probably start with this one and save yourself a lot of aggravation.

There is so much argument over which translation is the best and This version of meditations strikes just the right tone. I initially obtained the free version from project Gutenberg, but found it to be filled with too many embellishments from old English. I then looked at the modern Hays translation which many people seem to like, but found it to be too colloquial and it seemed to rob the text of its gravity. Finally I found gestalt with this penguin translation and it is light and clear while retaining a classic grammatical style that lenses the text a feeling of heft and authority. For this book, there is always a tension in the translation between communicating efficiently and allowing the reader time to linger by breaking away from modern speech patterns.

Between us there was, as I have already said somewhere, the bond of the sea. Besides holding our hearts together through long periods of separation, it had the effect of making us tolerant of each other yarns and even convictions. Heart of Darkness is a very complex book and I had to read it twice before I started to understand what the book was really about. The book is about a lot of things and it is about racism, the effects of European imperialism, journeying into the unknown, human nature, and I am sure some other things I have not uncovered yet. Like all great books, this book is about far more than just its plot and read it.

The book is a little bit difficult to follow because the text is written as a long series of short statements, which are often rather disparate in their subject matter. Rather than a flowing story or thought, you are provided with an onslaught of often very short sentiments of value, purpose, and wisdom. I enjoyed the book and found the concepts simple and straight forward to apply to every day life. At the risk of perverting or desecrating this great work, I think it would be valuable to have it converted in to one of those inspirational quote of the day flip calendars, someone get on that.

If there is one book I can credit with leaving a profound impact on my life, it is this one. The practical way in which it breaks down Stoic concepts is priceless. Things that used to bother me no longer phase me, and others, not as much as they used too. One of the things I am most thankful of getting from this book is the courage to see death for what it really is that nothing to fear. I feel fearless after reading this book, like a God even. Read this book if you want to be empowered to meet the challenges of life without fear.

I have read and reread this volume and I now have a much better understanding and appreciating of the intellectual ability of the western ancients. In the case of Marcus Aurelius, his wisdom contained and revealed in his Meditations is both a gift and a treasure gifted to modern mankind. This book is stacked with a very small number of other books which rest on a table located within arms reach to my favorite reading chair. This small group of printed matter will remain close to me until the day I become history. If you are a thinking human and have a competent understanding of human history you owe it to yourself to real Marcus Aurelius.

There are many self help books, but this is more about common sense and little things to remember throughout your days. One recurring theme is the brevity of life and value of time. It is a funny and weird feeling to read something that was written two millennium ago but applies to our lives in many ways. It is as if the author had peeked into our days and is now telling us to put our phones away and stop worshiping reality TV stars, for in the end this will all be forgotten, and will not matter at all. Of course every generation has had its own version of life suckers, but it is become more conspicuous and pervasive than ever. It may not change your life, but will sure make you reflect on how you are making use of it.

The Heart of Darkness is a masterpiece of English literature, evocative of both a specific time during Colonial Africa as well as a more timeless glimpse of shadow humanity. The story builds in a steady relentless way, which creates a vivid sense of claustrophobia and madness. Rereading it again in this edition has been especially powerful. At first I thought Matt Kish illustrations were maybe interesting in a cute and quirky way, but also as irrelevant and mildly irritating within the reading experience. But then as the story built and sucked me in further and further I came to see the drawings as beautifully complimentary and enhancing to the literary experience. The style of the illustrations is definitely distinctive and creative, even bizarre, earthy and abstract without attempting to be too literal. It would be great if this approach helps attract a whole new generation of readers to Conrad and he really is one of the best.