#169. Come as You Are: The Surprising New Science that Will Transform Your Sex Life
#Emily Nagoski Ph.D.
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Come-You-Are-Surprising-Transform/dp/1476762090/ref=sr_1_57?qid=1559117686&s=books&sr=1-57

This book is gentle and supportive, and aimed at women who are dealing with emotional blockers in intimate or sexual relationships, and at their partners. If you are confident and happy in your sexuality and looking for new ideas, or dealing with complex medical issues, then you can probably skip this book. The author encourages a kind, mindful, nonjudgmental approach to exploring sex. Her writing is repetitive, but I feel that the repetition serves a purpose, she is targeting women who feel beaten down or lost, who need to hear over and over again that they are okay, they are not broken, and they deserve to be happy and feel good. The author introduces topics that range from casually interesting, to extremely vital to the health or safety of our society, arousal non concordance. I just wish there were more advice about practical action steps to change the things we want to change, I hopefully there will be a sequel.

I want to hand this book out like Gospel tracts on street corners and have you heard the good news. You are normal, also, you are probably not built like a dude, so do not be surprised that your do not function like one. Take this and read this and make your partner read it and Leave it lying around so someone can steal it and find out they are okay too. I bought it in audio and in paper because I need them both. I am on my third read, seriously, read this book.

This books explains scientific concepts about arousal and orgasm in layman language, and constantly reinforces the concept that there is nothing wrong with us that we all have the same parts, arranged differently. Some women easily orgasm from penetration, and it seems to be a function of where the Clit is positioned in relation to the vagina, not inhibition or immaturity. Some women will never orgasm from penetration, and that is normal too. It is all a matter of not just finding your turn on, your gas pedal and learning what steps on the brakes for you. And if there was one huge take away from this for me, it was that wetness arousal for women. We can be wet and not aroused and we can be aroused and wet, or we can be aroused and not wet. Needing lube has nothing to do with not being womanly. Need lube, use lube and make lube your best friend. Lots of good anecdotal stories to illustrate the points of each chapter. I truly think every sexual person should read this, repeatedly.

Never written an Amazon review before, writing one now. If I could give this book hundred stars instead of five since this book is a gift, a present to everyone and anyone, whatever your current or life long or momentary pleasure, sexuality, sensuality, gender, or agenda may be. Liberating, breathtaking, conscientious, groundbreaking, informative, written from the soul, wholeheartedly, this book lifted me up, it made me cry. Every single one of the people I have bought this for has got back to me with this book is amazing. Amazing, this book has changed my life, and it changed mine.

If you own a vagina, you should read this book. I have learned so much more about women sexuality and general well being from this book than a lifetime of reading other things. It gives so much clarity around how your sexuality works and why patriarchal influences have forced women to have incorrect information about their bodies and experiences. It literally brought me to tears on multiple occasions and has changed my life.

As a young adult I wish I had had this book and knowledge is liberating. Knowing the facts surrounding feminine sexuality battles misconceptions and myths. In my fifties now I have learned from Come as You Are and am still learning who I am, what I need and want. Despite thinking I belong to a generation of liberated women I am realizing that this wrong. Sure sex education was introduced to us in ninth grade, but rolling a condom over a banana, which was certainly easier than dissecting a frog aside from the rank smell of formaldehyde, does not undo the societal myths or crude locker room talk. The author leads her readers down a path of self realization and intimate personal growth.

I have been on a journey of self for about five years now, so I am already all about shedding dogma, gaining insight on self, being mindful, considering things outside of traditional science and medicine. Sex was the only area I would never considered this for, a Youtuber I sometimes watch mentioned this book. I loved this book, it is kind of long and repetitive but some people need that. I found the high level points really great. It is worth being open to and giving a shot.

Very easy to read book makes this a great read for anyone. In fact, I truly believe this should be a necessity in sex education classes for women. Even men could learn a lot from this book and they could read the section at the end of the chapter and learn a lot. Starts with not so basic anatomy, discusses how our environment and culture have affected women self esteem, and constantly reminds women they are all beautiful. The author explains how to improve your sex life by better understanding yourself and what turns you off or on. As well as many other helpful suggestions. I have told a lot of my female and male friends some things I have learned from this book.

I chose to purchase this book due to a former boyfriend who complained that my orgasms took too long. Interested in reading up on the topic anyway, I found that the my former boyfriend was unsupportive and I do not need a man. This book was worth every minute and it takes an unspoken topic and breaks it down scientifically and without judgment, offering orgasm advice as well as a refreshing new perspective on relationships, yourself as a sexual woman. How you do not have to be any certain way to be what is normal which does not actually exist.

This book is one of perhaps top five in my life that have been a source of a real paradigm shift for my beliefs and also how I live my life and I read a lot. I did not realize how much I had bought into some of the false beliefs on women sexuality, especially as I have considered myself open minded. But the frustration I have felt at times in my sexual history led me to this book, and I found the research and ideas illuminating and so encouraging. I am using a couple of the tools in the book and am excited where this journey is taking me. I am more aware now of the myths and negative info on women and their sexuality. I hear it and see it in too many places and I can not recommend this book enough.