#17. Stillhouse Lake
#Rachel Caine
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01MFGX5GI/ref=s9_acsd_ri_bw_c_x_3_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-10&pf_rd_r=QC1BRC1VSZFSFBB70D97&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=b34f3048-7fa4-49b0-99af-8102f019a6c3&pf_rd_i=283155

Filthy language, do not buy, I bought it by accident, thinking that it was a good book and find a good book to buy and read instead of this trash. If I had known that it had the foul, filthy, obscene, disgusting word, I would not have bought it, a waste of my money and time. I have already applied for a refund for accidentally buying this trash without searching it to see if it had the filthy, foul, obscene. My fault for forgetting to check.

I did enjoy the psychological part of this story so that part I would rate a five. I felt there was not enough background on a few characters, so that rated a three and then there was the awful feeling of the ending. I really felt like someone just ripped out the last chapter of my book and it really was disheartening to get to the end and there was nothing but a cliff, so that rating is a two. If this is the way the author writes her books I am really not sure if I would be inclined to read another.

I generally enjoy the writing of this author, and I did enjoy much of the phrasing and cadence, but the plot itself seemed flawed throughout. I did not buy the basic premise, so the rest of the book failed to interest me. It was also such high emotional priority the whole time that I stopped caring, so I could not relate to any of the characters.

Awful book, so glad that it was free, so much of the story did not add up at all, how could anyone live in a home and never go into the garage. With everything that the husband had going on in the garage, there should have been some odors, blood, excessive noises, just totally unbelievable. And, in this day and age, how can anyone get children into schools without proper documentation and medical record. These inaccuracies really bothered me to the point that I spent more time wondering about them than the plot. This author is not for me and I disliked the book so much that I actually removed it from my Kindle and that is a first in a lot of years of Kindle reading.

This book was interesting, in the last twenty pages or so, however, I figured out who the new bad guy was going to be within the first one third of the book, and I was right. It is no fun being right about the bad guy so early in a book and most of it was predictable and cliche. It was a free read, but it is not a book for which I would have wanted to pay.

The central character is a total super woman, given all the situations the author puts her in, the author could be a Marvel super hero. I appreciate stories with strong independent women but this is ridiculous and the story line had potential but the author just went a bit too overboard. I love suspenseful books and this one could have been very good and I wanted to read it to the end because I was curious but it was quite a disappointment. It is a fast read at least so I did not sacrifice too much time, would not recommend.

The premise sounded intriguing, but as I read the first few chapters I lost interest. I really could not handle listening to a paranoid woman talk about having to constantly run from her past without having some explanation early on of what or whom she was running from. I did not develop any sympathy for her or her family and I was hoping for more action early on to keep me engaged, so I skipped to the last twenty pages and got all the answers I needed without having to read the entire book. Maybe I missed something in the middle that would have caught my attention, but I did not feel like going back to fill in the blanks.

Did not care much for this book and in fact I did not finish it and the main character was so paranoid that I was getting nervous. I got tired of reading about all the crazy precautions the author took and Understandable under her situation, but it became annoying.

It was difficult for me to accept a person who was that stupid as the lead character and I did not care for how it was written either. I kept pushing myself through it because others liked it and I just could not get past her character though. How does someone let their husband close off the garage and then never go in there, I just could not buy that, no way, I just thought she was too stupid to be the lead character.

I liked this book well enough and it is probably three and a half stars for me and the story ended up being pretty interesting at the end. The one issue I had with the book was the constant description of the depths of Gwen paranoia. It seems like it just goes on and on through the entire book, like if I did not understand she was traumatized after the first hundred pages, the author was going to continue to tell me for the rest of the book. On top of that, given her paranoia there is one character in the book she trusts that just does not make sense given here extreme trauma and paranoia. The first time they were introduced my thought was why the hell would you trust them and that is aside, it is an entertaining read and I will probably read the second book when it is released.