#170. Fall and Rise: The Story of 9/11
#Mitchell Zuckoff
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Fall-Rise-Story-9-11-ebook/product-reviews/B07JZBL48T/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I am on half pages and burst into tears reading about the phone call between Esther and Elizabeth. Having lived through this day in an apartment not far from the Pentagon, I am not sure why I am subjecting myself to this sad book. It is not as if I need a reminder of the constant horrors we human beings inflict on each other on a daily basis because of such superficial crap as the differences in religion, race, and the dirt we live on plus money and politics. Maybe it is to seek out the feelings I remembered after 911 unity, charity, caring, helping, before all the fear crept in. After I finish this, I may go find a deserted island to live on.

This was a hard read. A really hard read if you were alive during 911. I did not know anyone who perished that day, but I remember falling to the floor in front of my television and sobbing alone endless nights after everyone was asleep over the loss of all those innocents. This book brings all that back even harder and it is exceptional in the way it weaves all the attacks as they happened simultaneously. At the heart of this book are the personal stories which make the moments of impact and collapse completely soul wrenching. I could only put it down because I would get too upset to keep reading. Hard to believe it has been eighteen years, I am grateful for this book so generations who did not live through it have such a thorough, empathetic reference to the events. There are not enough stars in the world to give this book. It is a heavily researched account of the tragedies without any political or personal embellishment by the author. Thank you to the author for honoring the heroes and innocents from that horrific day by telling their stories. This is definitely narrative storytelling at its very best.

This book is ably researched and paints vivid pictures. The section covering the four flights is extremely well done. The Twin Tower escapes section is a little lacking simply because there are so few time stamps. The author does give us a timeline, but beyond that there are few time cues. The author may have consciously done this because it does perhaps lend a layer of authenticity. While we all know now, how impending the doom was for those escaping, those trapped in the building that day did not realize they were racing for their lives against a clock.

This book is riveting and I did not want to put it down even though it is necessarily graphic at times. The author points out many issues that I had not heard previously like how different agencies failed to communicate about the suspicious individuals and how they were initially delayed while going through security, only to be released to complete their assignments. The author also identifies the delays caused when the airlines did not or could not communicate with military. I sincerely hope that these deficiencies have all been corrected. I can not imagine the level of stress he must have been under while writing this book but he done the survivors proud.

Scary, heartwarming and tragic, all at the same time. The victims, survivors and heroes all stand out in this meticulously researched book. The author has written a moving and thoughtful tribute to the horrors that were witnessed and lived through on 911. He also has undermined the many conspiracy theories floating around about these events by his investigations of the causes and aftereffects of those attacks.

There are some books that are read over a lifetime of reading that stay with you and get into your soul. This is one of those books and the author brought out the very worse in humanity but more important, the best. It is a wonderful tribute to the brave men and women that lived and died on that day. I recommend this book to anyone that can journey back to that horrible day.

I just this very moment finished listening to the most amazing interview on radio, with this author, the author of Fall and Rise. The deeply intimate story of what happened that fateful day, serves to introduce us to people whom we have never met, but who we shall now never forget. The author has shared with us their lives before and during, and in some lucky cases, after that cataclysmic day. Listening to Michael tell their stories, well it broke my heart, but it also served more importantly to break my heart open. That is what hearing the truth of what humankind can rise to in the darkest and deadliest of days like 911. I hear their stories, and I feel called to show up for my own life, and the lives of those around me in a way that seeks to create a life of greater measure, for us all. Thank you Michael, this book, these stories, these people are the impetus for imagining what we all might rise to, if we but open our hearts and minds in loving concert with one another.

This book is a page turner and for those of us that remember the events of 911 it will take you back to that time In quite a bit of detail. For those that do not remember it serves as history and reminder of what happened on that day. This is one of the best books I have read of 911 and there been many of them out there. I would recommend this highly to anyone that is either remembering or is curious about what happened. Some of the people that were involved along with some of those that were victims are highlighted. It is definitely a volume worth reading. Thank you for writing it and it needed to be written at this time so people never forget.

I have just started Fall and Rise, both the written and the impeccable audio ready by the author. Within minutes, I was acutely aware that this was not simply a narrative history but an exposition of tragedy unmatched in modern times. This is not merely stirring memory but a reanimation of human beings in full, as much unknowing as the reader is knowing. This is the true horror, that which we all we love in life, they loved in life, they were us and we are them, this is three thousand deaths, one at a time, each life with its own arc, brought to earth with the randomness we all fear the most. I have read all of work of this author and all was preparatory. Social media is a testimony to anonymous passions, written and read in the dark. This is purely in the light with elegant, precise, and compelling use of language. This should be read by as many people as possible and read aloud with others. You will surely cry but do not let that persuade you from both the gratitude and admiration you will feel.

What an incredible book and I have read a lot about 911 and the aftermath, and this book is one of the best, along with Report From Ground Zero. The author writes beautifully, and he makes you feel as if you are there in the middle of all the stories of that day that he tells. This is not easy reading, but I feel that it is essential reading, if you want to understand what it was truly like for the people who died and those who survived that terrible day that changed our country forever.