#173. The Theft of America's Soul: Blowing the Lid Off the Lies That Are Destroying Our Country
#Phil Robertson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Theft-Americas-Soul-Blowing-Destroying/product-reviews/1400210046/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

The author is the real deal, seen him preach a few times and met the man once. Nothing the author has ever said was not in the best interest of those listening. At seventy two years of age and more money than he will ever spend, why would he subject himself to persecution and ridicule. The answer is simple, the author know Jesus was truly the son of God and he knows that those who open their hearts can be changed. He follows the first and second commandments, buy the book get a blessing.

I have read the other two books of this author and the books by the Robertson family and even mountain man wrote a book that is very much worth reading. I would rate this the highest of the three books by this author. It is more about the gospel and not as much for entertainment as the other books and that is exactly what I needed. I started reading and could not put it down. The first chapter made me wonder a bit if I wanted to continue because it seemed a repeat of the other books but as it turned out it would be a necessity to anyone who had not read the other books or was not familiar with the Robertson family. I watched the duck hunting videos from the crazy duck hunters from Louisiana years ago and they were the best available. Who knew there was more to them river rats than duck hunting videos.

A man who speaks the truth is a rarity in this day and age. The author has fortitude and exemplifies a real man. Admits when he has made mistakes and clearly loves God, Family and the USA. Very refreshing to hear a man speak his mind and not be worried about our current culture. Why are some people so scared to acknowledge God, America was founded by Christians on Christian theology, you can visit DC and see all the stone work associated with the ten commandments and biblical references. The US Supreme Court, the floor of the National Archives, statue of Moses in the Library of Congress, entrance to the Senate and many other references to Christianity by our Founding Fathers. Maybe if we still taught the ten Commandments and basics of the Bible in schools then we might have a little more respect for life and our neighbors and I also appreciate the font size and letter spacing. The overall physical quality of the book and pages are above average.

Loved this book and the author believes with all his mind, heart, and soul in the God of the Bible and talks to us as adults, just the facts. Do you want blessings and things to go well in your life, then follow the teachings of scripture. Secular society believes they can do better, and the evidence clearly does not support this. This is the book in a nutshell and it is a great read for those who want straightforward common sense proof of the truth of the Bible.

The author has a strength of faith that guides his decisions, as such, he frames this entire book through the lens of his faith. This is not a criticism, but realize this book is more a sermon. While I agree with the author in principle if not methodology, I did find myself agreeing with him. While the path of this author may not be right for everyone, a point he would fundamentally disagree with, it clearly is a path that has worked for him. As such it would be wise for those seeking a better way to at least consider what he says.

This book is both disturbing and inspirational and the author reveals in plain spoken, commonsense text, the things that have occurred in our culture during the past half century that has brought us to our moral knees. He hits every nails squarely on the head, exposing the myths promoted as facts that have eroded our moral fabric and undermined our country. The last chapter is like a carpet bombing of truths and I recommend this to anyone who cares about our country and wants it back.

Please read this if you are even remotely considering what it is about. This book will give you a very real look into what life is really like once you give yourself to Christ and the statutes of Scripture. I promise there is nothing in here that will not prove to be your own story once you have. This definitely encourages the soul not to do better but to consciously give oneself to God entirely and to live through Christ as we were designated to do. We all struggle with sin, and this just gives you that pat on the butt you probably, like me, needed. No diatribe here, the truth is in the Book. Love this guy and all he has done to spread Christianity from it is true roots, not the mega Church feel good approach.

The author freely admits, that like the rest of us, he has not lived a perfect life. Fortunately, he found freedom and forgiveness in Christ Jesus, which drastically changed his life. I was surprised to learn of his educational achievements. This is an inspirational book that encourages us to share the love of Christ with everyone, not just with the lovely, but also with the unlovely, with people we like and with people we do not like. I pray this book should be widely read and shared.

As usual, the author speaks to my simple redneck soul. His temperance is calming and this books reads as if you can hear him speaking to you. Full of love, his spoken words reign in the sinful destructive calamity we are witnessing destroy our nation. This book puts into words what most of us normal Christian folk feel but cannot articulate as well as the author does, thanks the author.

Just heard, this author speak and met him yesterday at a Sportsman Show, this man is a modern day. He gave a powerful heartfelt talk on the direction of our country and the peril we are facing as America continues to turn from God. I bought the book yesterday at the show and it is powerful message is spot on. I say this not as a lifelong Holy Roller but a sinner whose life was similar in ways to the author and has received Salvation by the blood of Jesus Christ. I read his book in a few hours and recommend it highly and it speaks Truth. It was a pleasure to have met this fine gentleman who honors the King of Kings, the One to whom every knee shall bow, God bless this author.