#175. Introverted Mom: Your Guide to More Calm, Less Guilt, and Quiet Joy
#Jamie C. Martin
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Introverted-Mom-Guide-Guilt-Quiet-ebook/product-reviews/B07LGJGMNK/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This book is great for moms who have a hard time parenting due to their introverted personality. The author gives some good tips on how to get the breaks you need when you are home all day with children. I like how she incorporates some ideas from her favorite authors like Laura Ingalls Wilder and Louisa May Alcott. The only thing I wished the book had was at the end of each chapter were questions for the reader or even Bible verses to read or memorize. The Reflections From Introverted Moms sections were at first nice to hear how others struggle, but I ended up skipping them in later chapters because they seemed redundant.

Seriously, I have never read a book so quickly and she took the words, heart, realities right out of the pages of my own introverted life. As a mom to four under the age of eight, this book was water to a parched soul. Not only does Jamie do a great job at identifying how introverts function, feel, and think, she then goes on to give tips and tricks for how to deliver my best self to the life to which I have been called. Through stories of her own life and those of four very well known introverted female authors, she kept me coming back for more, thank you.

I received an advance digital copy of this book that I also ordered and I loved this book. By nature, extroverts speak up more than introverts, so it is so refreshing to hear from a fellow introvert. The author gives moms permission to identify their introverted tendencies and shows them how to protect their peace while using the strengths which come from their God given personalities. Her A Huge List Of True Self Care Ideas For The Introverted Mom includes over seven pages of ideas broken down into time allotments depending on whether a mom has fifteen minutes or a few hours or so to spend on rest. I especially appreciated that she made a distinction between self care and self improvement.

As an introvert who can disguise herself as an extrovert, very few people in my life actually know I am an introvert and I felt like much of what the author said was taken from my own thoughts and feelings. She did not make introversion sound like a disability, but for the first time, I understood my strengths and weaknesses as an introvert. She gives practical, hands on ideas for introvert moms to apply for self care not self improvement. I loved this book and plan on making it a yearly read to remind myself that God gave my children an introverted mom on purpose.

This book is absolutely fantastic and I have struggled greatly reconciling my introverted nature with my life and vocation as a home school mom to three wonderful children, as I very rarely get a moment peace to myself. I have never felt as understood in my life as I did while reading this book. It gave me permission to be myself and not feel defeat and failure at the end of every day simply because of the nature and personality that God gave me. It reminded me to always rely on God, whose strength is made perfect in my weakness but also to care for the little girl I once was and still am. I could never thank the author enough for writing this book.

I do not think I can even sum up the amazing things Jamie touches on. The protagonist always felt like something was wrong with me. I love people but why do I need to retreat to a quiet place so much. I am a complete introvert and I energize in my alone time. Nothing is wrong with me. I still love people I just need to schedule in quiet time for me to be filled back up again. I highly recommend this book to any introverted woman. Whether homeschooling or not, it is a breath of fresh air, encouragement to your spirit and soul. I am going to read it a second time and pour over her words soaking them in once again. Thank you, the author for opening your heart and encouraging this fellow introverted Mama.

I am only two chapters in and I had to stop and write a review. You guys, this book is so good and I am having so many wonderful moments. I am outgoing, so I always thought I was an extrovert who wanted to be an introvert. I have not been able to get through other books about introverts without getting bored and putting them down forever. This one is like having a conversation with a helpful friend. So many things to think about differently thanks to this book. Anyway I wanted to shout it from the rooftops and then get back to reading. You will not regret buying this book, even if you are an extrovert, so helpful.

This is a helpful, if new to introversion, and encouraging book for moms and a must read for homeschooling or full time moms. It is unique in how to draws from and connects us to classic writers. It has some really good ideas and checklist if you are desperate for help getting life in order. She has great philosophical advice on keeping first things first. I have enjoyed the book and purchased it for others. I think most of all, you feel as though a friends has encouraged you in a honest and gentle way to remember why you are a mom and gave you practical advice on how to keep doing it well. I found myself reading parts of the book to my extroverted husband and he needs to know and its not just me. You need this book, if you are not an introvert but your mom, sister, best friend is, insightful if you have not studied personalities.

This book felt like a big hug, like a big sister was telling me to look her in the eye while she said, it is going to be okay. There are many times when I have thought things would be easier for me if I were an extrovert, but with her gentle, kind words, the author showed me that God knew exactly what he was doing when he entrusted my three children to my care. If you have ever struggled to figure out parenting as an introvert, do we need to do all the activities, why is it so loud, can I just have a minute of quiet, then you would benefit from reading this book. The author includes a helpful list of self care activities, broken down by time frame that I know I will be referencing. That said, this book is less about here is what to do to fix your problem and more there is grace for you where you are. I think that is why I loved it so much and I received an advanced copy for being part of the book launch team and an honest review.

The finishing touch on an already excellent book is the sections the author includes on her favorite literary introvert mentors, which just proves that the author knows how to speak to an introvert heart because during those weeks of grumpily allowing Mark to take the girls for a walk. I found solace in Anne of Green Gables and The Blue Castle and when the two girls were joined by two more, I created a quiet pocket in the day by reading this book at lunch time. By the time I had six children, Eight Cousins and Emma were savored, page by page, behind a locked bathroom door. It certainly is a wonderful thing to be told that, even in that strange, random quirk, I am not alone. Best of all, I have a new literary mentor to turn to. Maybe we are both too introverted to ever meet up outside of the internet and the pages of a book even though we both live in the same state, but the author will be joining Jane Austen as my go to friends when I need an introverted pep talk. I hope you will find this book as much of a treasure as I did.