#176. A Feast of Ice and Fire: The Official Game of Thrones Companion Cookbook
#Chelsea Monroe-Cassel
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Feast-Ice-Fire-Official-Companion-ebook/product-reviews/B006L7CG58/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Amazing, I ordered this to go along with my Sunday evening showing. I have followed this series since the beginning and I have always been the one drooling over the delicious food I see them eating. I made Crusty White Bread and Medieval Creme Bastard from The Wall, Honeyed Chicken from The North from Dorne. The bread held its shape and was fairly easy to make. It says to knead it but if you are using a mixer, be careful not to over mix it or it will end up being dense. It was crunchy on the outside and so soft on the inside. If you hold it up, it makes the crunching sound when you push on it. The chicken was delicious. I was wary of the apple cider vinegar because it made the sauce smell quite strong but it was delicious. Do not be fooled by the vinegar smell, for dessert, creme bastard was delicious. The cream was not overly sweet and the burst of the frozen blueberries made for a happy plate from me and my guest. Lastly, the Lemon Sweet took some elbow grease from juicing. The fresh taste of this beverage is everything. I will admit, it is very sweet. If you do not care for overly sweet drinks, this might not be for you but for me, I was in heaven. This entire dinner put me in the spirit for GOT and I would recommend this book to any GOT lover, this book will not disappoint you.

This gift brought tears to my guys eyes, the author a huge game of thrones fan and had every other book related to it. I randomly picked this as a birthday present hoping he would like it and did not already have it because I know he loves GOT. Apparently he has had this on his Christmas list with his families gift exchange for a few years now and even with it being requested he would never received it. I am really happy I randomly chose this for his birthday.

So far, I have made a bit of everything, breads, side dishes, main dishes, and desserts. I find I tend to use the original recipe more than the modern version, but it is great to have both options. And I have really enjoyed the outcome of each recipe. In particular, the oatcakes are delicious and they make a fabulous snack that is really filling, and I love the pie crust recipe. For me, that one recipe alone made it worth the purchase. I have tried many recipes, but this one far surpasses all the ones I have tried. The dough was easy to work with and the finished crust was beautifully flaky and delicious. I love making things from scratch and this book is full of good recipes to choose from.

I bought this as a gift for a GOT fan, to be honest, as someone who has not read, watched the series myself, I like this cookbook. It is basically lots of old and traditional English recipes brought to more modern standards with occasional GOT place names and characters sometimes thrown onto the front of the recipe name to bring it back to the series theme. I flipped through and did not see anything that looked truly original, as though it was made completely and totally fresh for the novel series, but it all looked good. Beautiful pictures of the dishes, nicely put together.

We have done a few recipes from this book and have loved it so far and I like the traditional versus modern takes. The background information she has put in regarding historical foods is a fun read and sets idea in place for what you are trying to achieve. It is a learning curve but she has plenty of forward at the beginning to help you get started or a place to refer to if you are wondering what the heck you are supposed to be doing. We love her cookbook which is why we got it, we ended up having to buy a second book since ours started falling apart. I can not wait to delve further into this book and her recipes. I am not a fan of comic cons but if she showed up at one locally I would be hauling my cookbooks in and grabbing a photo.

I mean, this one gets points just for tackling a subject like this. Now I know not everyone is a GOT fan, and I have even tried to not dismiss the non fans from my life, but this is a hard one. While the author throws in a lot of food descriptions and moments at the table, he is not exactly giving ingredient lists or techniques and we are talking the books here, not the TV series. The authors do not let that stop them, and have managed to delve into what amounts to medieval English cooking and modern English cooking, and find a strangely satisfying balance. The authors speculate on classic dishes that come close to fitting the descriptions of what Martin meanders on about, try it out, present it, photograph it, beautifully I might add, and then in many of the cases, turn around and come up with a modern take on the same dish or ingredients, and do the same. The one drawback, in some ways, is the subject matter, though it may be my own failing. I do not think there was a single recipe that enticed me to try making it and it felt like the kind of food one might make for a dinner party of fans of either the books or TV series, but probably for little other reason.

Wish I had not waited so long to make this purchase and I had A Feast of Ice and Fire sitting on my wish list for years and finally bought it to prepare for a GOT finale party. The research that has gone into it is truly impressive and fascinating. Delving into its contents has been a surprise lesson into an old world. I love that there is a medieval and modern version to each recipe, and they are different enough to be worth trying both. My first round was Medieval Leek Soup and Modern Beef and Bacon Pie, which my rommate renamed them Reek Soup and Frey Pie. The pie is fantastically photogenic, and I changed the filling to a chicken pot pie for round two with equally popular results. Dessert was Medieval Creme Bastard, and while I am not sure I like the cooked cream more than plain whipped cream, I love the texture that builds when it is poured over frozen blueberries. This cookbook is both a wonderful GOT tribute and a worthy cookbook in its own right.

First off, let me just say it is not possible to describe this book using the form offered here on Amazon. It is a cookbook and it is full of recipes and pictures of some of the prepared recipes, GOT food. Each kingdom is represented with a menu of foods that would be eaten there. Each recipe comes with a medieval list of ingredients and cooking instructions and a modern list of ingredients and cooking instructions. Also included are options for substituting ingredients that cannot be found in modern times. I have always wondered what the favorite lemon cakes of Sansa would taste like. Now I can know because the recipe is in this book and this book makes a great coffee table book as well. Great gift idea for those friends who follow Game of Thrones.

I love the quality of the book, the pictures, the way they grouped the recipes by region, the recipes themselves, and the way you get two ways to make everything. It is a unique cookbook in that way, and served me well for a game of thrones dinner party. Most people probably will not make a lot of these but that is a lot of cookbooks. It is a nice piece to share with friends, and maybe most importantly it feels genuine and not like a cash grab. I thought it had the chance to feel like that but, you do not make this kind of book in a hurry. If you are really thinking about getting this book and you have gone to the lengths to read the comments, this is the right book, get it.

My Boss loved it and if you read an earlier review then you know we are going to cook some of the dishes for the series finale. If you have not gotten this book and you like the show and cooking, get it, so of the recipes are simple and look divine. For those of you who like to cook and have no clue what GOT is but like to try something daring, get this book. I plan on making the apple tarts and the duck and several other dishes before the big day.