#177. Spygate: The Attempted Sabotage of Donald J. Trump
#Dan Bongino
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Spygate-Attempted-Sabotage-Donald-Trump/product-reviews/B07HXKL3V3/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

This book has content that you will not see or find anywhere else. While the topic itself is covered elsewhere in large mainstream media Outlets the truth of what is actually happening is rarely ever exposed. If there was a six star recommendation or anything higher because the truth is all that matters, he would receive it. This book is put together with so many far left leading news stories as being able to support the fact of what happened. It is possible to say well that just did not happen but it was reported by the left and when you put all of the pieces of the puzzle together it is painfully obvious to see what happened. If these people involved do not go to jail the death of our Republic has already happened.

I am midway through this book, just hours after it auto downloaded onto my Kindle after my order. The book does an excellent job of making sense of all the conflicting, obfuscated, often fake media reports that have trickled out over the past two years, not to mention all the partisan punditry that will yank you this way or that. The author is a former cop, Federal agent and Secret Service agent in the presidential protective detail, so he knows a thing or two about building a case and distilling evidence down to the essentials. And while he has his own conclusion, he presents facts, events and time lines in a compelling and generally even handed way so you can draw your own. The book is richly footnoted, with citations you can call up as desired. Recommended for anyone curious about this book scandal and its chilling importance for the country.

Fantastic Book, finally, someone putting it all together so it makes sense. The author always says Remember The Names and this book goes through all the players names so you can understand their role in the greatest scandal in American history. Then, the set up and attempt to take down a duly elected President. Having read the book, it will now be a great reference to go back and remind me of some of the details behind the players and their role in this criminal enterprise known as Spygate.

Anyone who listens to the broadcast of this author and watches his show everyday like me knows how much work he put into this to tell the real story and back it up with solid facts and the detail is incredible. I bought three copies for friends because I think it is so important to read. The fact he was a federal agent I think gave him a real unique way of piecing this all together and making it understandable for the rest of us from start to finish. I can not say enough about Dan and his broadcast, his show, and his books, upmost respect for him and everything he does.

Excellent book on the scandal of our lifetime, well researched. The author tells you exactly where he got the research for this book so you can dig deeper if so desired. Everyone should go to appendix section one to three to further understand the leaks to the media and the connections that put this entire Obama, Clinton scandal on the map. This should be required reading for all middle school children to learn about abuse of power that occurred during the Obama administration and to never allow this abuse to occur again.

It would seem an almost impossible task to document the trail of corruption behind Spygate, but this book makes it very simple. Learn the persona involved and their histories, read the documents and footnotes that lay bare the intent and results as the line is drawn clearly from beginning to end. The results are, in equal measure, distressing and impressive. If you have any interest in the Deep State, this book is a must read. The author has once again done a great service to this country.

This is not what you would expect and I am familiar with this author and I expected a more conservative spin. This is very neutral, fact based and tons of footnotes sourcing, proving information. I have been an absolute junky with the Russian Influence in our election so I assumed most this would be repeat info. I am halfway through the book and I am blown away with how much new info and players I am learning and so far the stories has been pieces together in an easy to read fashion. I am writing down names and who they are as a reference throughout. I will update this review probably tomorrow when books completed.

If I had not been listening to Dan broadcast for months I would think this was a spy thriller. Fantastic research, well plotted as to making it easier to understand, incredible verification of the facts. The only thing the good guys need to do is write up the indictments and prosecute the criminals. It is all laid out, the work of the detectives, and the prosecution and it would make a great thriller, but I am thrilled that the jig is up. The Rules have changed, the Patriots, the Tea Party groups, the Conservatives, the Flyover Patriots who faithfully elected representatives time after time who worried about bad press. Time to say it like it is, do not back down think for yourselves, we win and they Lose, we are preserving our Constitutional Republic.

I have followed the broadcast of this author for over two years now and his analysis of the Mueller Probe has been spot on. He does an excellent job of pulling material from various sources, Left and Right, and analyzing the overall mosaic of facts. For any American, this book provides much needed analysis on the ever changing media narrative surrounding the origins of the Mueller probe and the so called Russian Collusion investigation. I urge all to read this with an open mind and a critical eye.

Sean Hannity describes this book as the biggest scandal in American history. This is the complete story of the failed illegal political assassination of our President by Hilary Clinton, and the entrenched Washington political class. Two years of false narrative, nothing but Russian Collusion on the mainstream media complex. This book sheds light on the deep corruption in our government and how far these corrupted individuals are willing to go to maintain power by any means necessary using the full weight of the media, corruption all the way up to Hillary Clinton and Obama himself. These people do not have the best interests of America in their hearts. Bigger than Watergate, terrifying and fascinating, this book will tear the mainstream narrative matrix to shreds right in front of your eyes.