#179. Their Eyes Were Watching God
#Zora Neale Hurston
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Their-Eyes-Were-Watching-God-ebook/product-reviews/B07MDLQ38N/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I found this book fascinating until I found that some pages were missing because I did not start this book immediately as I was reading God This Is Anna, also from Amazon, when I got to the missing pages I was past the thirty day return time. I will now have to go through the hassle of calling Amazon and trying to get this straightened out. I can not believe that I am the first customer to discover this problem.

I bought a brand new copy and just lifted it out of the box. On the cover are five distinct fingerprints of some kind of gross goo, who knows what. I attempted to take pictures but it just looks like glare. In the best case, the staffer who packed the books had just eaten a greasy ham sandwich but failed to wash his hands. In the worst case, I hate to consider. Of course, not serious enough to return the book but, gross, I paid good money for this item. I would assume better quality control, common sense, and good decent hygiene, thanks.

This was a pretty decent book and it is a little difficult to read because ninety percent of the novel is written in black English. You get used to it after a while, and might not have any difficulty reading it at all, if you already speak like that. The story was good, a little slow in parts, but interesting overall. This book has good, memorable characters. The ending is a bit sad though and the book provides interesting information about racial relations without being overly critical and controversial, which is nice. It is actually more about men and women than race and I read this book for college.

I like the parts of this story that are not written in the vernacular of the day, however, if the verbiage changes from the vernacular to more formal verbiage I am pretty certain that the entire soul of this book would simply wither and die. On one hand, the story is heart wrenching and thought provoking, on the other hand, the vernacular makes me want to stab out my eyes.

I heard such glowing reviews of this book that when I read it I was extremely disappointed. Do not get me wrong, this novel has its place in American literature, but just like reading Moby Dick, The Scarlet Letter, this book just left me wanting. In truth, if you want to read a truly great book about Black Americans before their emanicipation, you should definitely read The Healing by Jonathan Odell. Now that was an awesome book and do not get me wrong. This was a good book for its time, and it has its place in Great American Literature, but I just could not get that excited about it.

The writing of this book can be wonderfully poetic and touching and through it she poignantly describes universal emotions. Much of the book is written in the idiomatic African American way of speaking which can be difficult to understand for those not familiar with it. Despite some brief displays of brilliant writing the book dose not have a clear purpose and the reader can not tell if the author intended for it to be a powerful feminist piece of work or a soppy love story. Maybe it was meant to be both and that is troubling because it means the female protagonist could only find herself and liberate what had been suppressed through romantic love instead of through self love and acceptance.

This book was different from many books that I have read, however, I would not expect anything less from an African American based book. The characters were fun, but there were way too many to keep track of in some parts. The plot and story line were well written, but lagged a little in places. The main character was a good character to revolve the story around. Overall the book was intriguing, especially toward the end when something unexpected happens between Janie and her husband Tea Cake. There is also a lot of good symbolism used and I would recommend if you enjoy reading about African Americans or just want to add a new story line to your book list.

Since the book takes place in the south with a heavy accent, the reading level proves to be eleventh grade proficiency equivalent. Overall, the book was interesting, however not stunning. There is a fair amount of information that can be understood with the books setting. Finally, reading this book with an audio book and trailing along at the same time would be highly suggested, because it allows the character to come alive.

I had to read this book for summer homework for school and what has happens with all those books is that they are going to be boring. This book was not actually as bad as I thought it was going to be. It could have kept me a little more into it at some points considering that I was not interested in learning some of the back story since I did not see the point. Otherwise these things, it was an okay book. It was good enough to keep me from getting too bored, but I probably will not be reading it again in the near future.

I know this book is fiction but the author had to have some good sense of observation to write such a thing and it makes me wonder if she had some engineering, biology or cytology background as well if she might have cracked this human problem and made a huge breakthrough. I was not aware of the mind being pictures and connected to distress but found it out to be true rather later as described in the book. The Modern Science of Mental Health, the author touched on in this book is something quite important I believe, then her story moves on to various superbly descriptive dramatic writing. The characters seem to have a rough go of it though.