#182. In Cold Blood
#Truman Capote
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Random-House-Audio-Cold-Blood/product-reviews/B000E1ZA3C/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I was a little worried about picking up this book concerned that it would be lurid and make celebrities out of the killers, but I was surprised and immediately swept away since the writing is precise, clear, and lyrical and it rings like a bell calling you back for more. The depth of analysis, the sheer amount of work that went into this is stunning and it is never lurid, never written to sell copy. The characters are richly drawn and fully realized and it is the Clutter family that I remember most now that I have shut the book. As it should be, a secondary tragedy is that we do not see more of this type of reporting.

Everyone knows this book and it was the first of a genre and according to many made the author a household name but also destroyed him. I cannot comment on either of those issues since I never knew the author personally and while I was around when the book was written and published I was too young to know about his celebrity at the time but the book is well written and opens a door into a time period very different from the one we live in today. The book conveys the time period to us and the character of these men and to a certain extent their victims. This book shows the essential humanity of criminals involved here. One can only winder if perhaps things had been slightly different in terms of their lives, they might have never embarked on their lives of criminality. Not to mention one can ponder the context of the crime and had the quirks in these two male characters had been slightly different the horrendous events which occurred that night may well not have occurred. The enormous waste of the life both of the victims but also two men who could have been quite different than the cold bloodied criminals they became.

What a sad book, a fascinating read, I hated to put it down even to sleep, still, the plot went quickly. The author painted such a full picture of the two killers, one can not help but wonder if the pair would have met the same fate had people known more about mental illness in 1960. The courts really did not allow a full defense in limiting the Psychiatric expert witness answers to yes or no. They were cognizant of what they were doing, but they both were quite clearly mentally ill, still, mental illness does not equate to insanity.

I tend to dislike any non fiction novel and I came into reading this book with very low expectations, but was surprised by how much I enjoyed the novel. The mystery was truly captivating and I found myself not wanting to put the story down. I found it very interesting to follow a murder that actually occurred and all other murder mysteries I have read in the past were fictional. It was fascinating and even more chilling to know that the content in which I was reading really arose. I really appreciated the evident, in depth research that the author must have done prior the writing the book. This book was also really moving and the chilling story opened my eyes about the severity of murders. Overall, I would recommend reading this novel since it truly influenced me as a person and the detailed descriptions caused me to grow. Although I did enjoy the novel, I did have a few dislikes. First, the book began at a very slow pace and the author took a great amount of time to set the scene causing me to get engrossed much later in the novel. Lastly, I warn potential readers of the detailed, harsh description that the novel entails. Depending on the type of reader you tend to be, the vulgar may repel you from the excellence of the novel.

I decided to read this book because I had a few friends recommend it to me, honestly this is one of the best books I have ever read and it was so interesting reading about the two murderers journey throughout the book. I thought I was going to have to wait for the story to build up but the author right from the bat let you know what was happening. The fact that the book was based on a true story made it even better. The innocent murder off the clutter family continuously had me wanting to read more. I also really enjoyed reading about the trial and how once they have been tried we get to learn more about Perry and Dick past and their childhoods. I would definitely read it again any other day.

Who writes better than the author at his best, this book is a story masterfully told with all the gruesome details of the crime, the description of the scene, and the investigators and the murderers are major characters. It is perfectly written with that familiar local prose that puts the reader in the scenes. This book was the beginning of a new genre, fictionalized true crime and the author is its master, completing thoughts that the characters must have had, but likely not expressed in his conversational and very readable style. Read this book, it is an old story and there is a movie, but do not deprive yourself of this masterful tale.

I was born and raised in Kansas and had never read this book nor investigated this story. The story itself made me mad, sad, and terrified. I purchased the book on kindle and was able to link to the internet periodically to look at photos of the family, the investigation, of the town, and the house, and the killers, whenever I was curious about something, it really brought the book to life. I found the writing style to be sufficiently captivating, especially his descriptions of the little things, like the town of Holcomb and the townspeople. Though in my subsequent perusing I learned that some of the surviving family was not happy with the way the author approached the novel. Maybe his depictions of the Clutter family were not completely accurate, but as a reader, I sure got a convincing feel for what was going on inside the killers heads, all the way to the last second when they went to the gallows.

This book was tremendous and I have never read anything by this author before and I was blown away by his talent. The story itself is very sad and bizarre and I felt so sorry for the Clutter family, a good, mid western, solid and stable farm family. I have never been to Kansas and this book really made everything come to life, the fields of wheat, the farmers, the small town cafe. I was especially repulsed by the Perry Smith character and I believe that the author attempted to make this murderer a bit more human and he attempted to elicit sympathy for him from the reader, I was having none of it. Many of us in the world have unhappy childhoods, but that dose not exempt you from being a savage murdered, overall good book.

I was required to read this for a college literature class and I did not think I was going to like it, despite being a true crime fan. Much to my surprise, this is now one of my favorite novels and has definitely had a tremendous impact on my outlook on life and crime. I am sure this is going to be one of those books that sticks with me for a long time, one that never quite leaves the back of your mind. The author was a genius, the portrayal of the author in the movie is absolutely moving. I highly recommend watching that movie after reading the novel and I am so glad my teacher made my class read this novel.

Excellent story, well written, it really takes you to that long ago early Vietnam, Kennedy era and what life was like in small town America with this chilling account of a true murder story. Initially, my only interest was in learning about the author and his style but this story quickly caught my deep interest and I found it extremely hard to put down. I would recommend this book to anyone wanting to understand what life was like then as well as what was going on in the minds of the murders as well as the victims and the townspeople impacted by what happened and the author himself. This is a good read very well written.