#186. Thinking, Fast and Slow
#Daniel Kahneman
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Thinking-Fast-Slow-Daniel-Kahneman/product-reviews/0374533555/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

This was the book of the month for our reading group and I admit, I had to push myself to keep reading this book. I doubt I would have read it, or kept reading it, if it was not for being held accountable on the first Wednesday of next month and it felt long and repetitive to me. My takeaway is that we all make bad decisions and sometimes we get lucky and make good decisions, try to make better choices. Pay attention to what you are doing and maybe you will make better choices, or maybe not. When I finished I was impressed by all the research, but left wondering how all this research could make my life or others lives any better, was it research just for the sake of research, I do not know.

This book was recommended by a colleague and the premise is sound and the foundations of what the author shares is brilliant in many ways, but it could have been much more concise and to the point. Skimmed over many pages and examples to glean information that was pertinent to my interests. Still, I recommend it for others that have an interest in the psychology of thinking.

The authors were brilliant and really shook up the fields of economics and psychology with their work, however, if you are approaching this material for the first time this is not the easiest way to get into the depths of their research. While this book is more approachable than their original research papers, it is more challenging than other books that cover the same material or that explore how the research impacted various fields. On the flip side, if you do want a rich conversation, that may amble at times through some minutia, about the author and his colleagues work, you may find a lot of value here.

Book has very great research shared, but I lost interest when I read about the half book. It is great to know so many theories about decision making, but all are not actionable and may not be useful for me as a manager. Inclusion of summary at the end of chapter and few actionable ideas or tips around how to make decisions or steps to consider while making decisions might have been more useful. Understanding how humans react and make decisions under different situations was most useful. Good to read, but certainly not the best I came across around decision making.

As a former grad student in Psychology I am used to reading lots of data with not much in the way of clear conclusions, that would be true here as well. The author does as well as anyone in describing the complexity of human thought using concepts and categories that make it somewhat easier to comprehend but it is still human behavior and is just not easily understood. I found a lot of the ideas interesting and he certainly makes his case about the fallibility of human judgment and it just takes a while. If you are willing to plow through all the verbiage you will come away with a deeper but still very incomplete understanding of cognition.

This book is good in describing the different portions of the mind and how the influence thinking and decision making. My only real complaint with the book is that the points could have been made in a couple hundred less pages. Basic thesis is you have two parts to your brain, the fast, intuitive piece that is easy to confuse and highly subject to bias, suggestion, and past experience. And you have the other part of your brain that is more deliberate, slower, and lazy. Sometimes the fast part of your brain will offer up an erroneous suggestion that your slow brain will accept because it is lazy and the solution seems plausible. And then there is a bunch of information on different types of biases and influences that can lead to wrong thinking. Bottom line, often times if you go with your gut feeling without thinking through things deliberately you will be wrong or less right than you otherwise would be.

This was a fascinating look at decision making, both intuitive and thoughtful. He explained the process by which we can make such bad decisions and human instincts can be so very off the mark. I hope I can remember all the insights and the best was what you see is All There Is. It is a slow read because you need to absorb each chapter, but it is worth reading.

I have read excerpts of the work of this author in many other books about decision making and rationality so I was really looking forward to reading this book. While I found much of the material interesting, I did not find the book to be an enjoyable read like I do Malcolm Gladwell, Dan Ariely or Robert Cialdini works, as a result, it took quite a while to plow through it and I enjoy this kind of stuff. I state that up front because I think a causal reader of those books would be disappointed with Thinking, Fast and Slow. I did find many parts interesting and they gave me pause to consider how what was shared might be impacting my thought processes. I will use some of what I learned when I blog and train people but again, I would caution the average reader on this one. Flip through a copy at the bookstore or read some of the free chapters before making the purchase just to be certain it is for you.

A bit of a slog, lots of large words that feel used for the sake of using large words. It is one thing to utilize a grasp of grammar effectively, but when I find myself asking why not use more simplistic language to get the point across it makes the information less engaging than if a simpler approach had been utilized. The examples provided are thought provoking, but again, it is presented with what I would compare to a college professor on tenure giving the same presentation that had been given year after year than someone who wishes to engage their audience and celebrate their knowledge together.

One of the main weaknesses of the book, if not the main weakness of the book, is ironically the fact that the book does not have much of a discussion of the nexus between these behavioral biases, on the one hand, and economics, on the other. Related to this there is little discussion, with the exception of a little in the conclusion, on the impact of the contents of the book on the prevailing macro or micro economic theories, in particular rational expectations. In addition, and again ironically, the book has little if any discussion of possible causes of these biases. This is despite the fact that many seem to be caused by a subconscious need to reduce effort and the expenditure of energy on the part of decision makers. Could the root of these biases, possibly, have an evolutionary biological explanation especially in regard to helping humanity reduce its energy consumption. Unfortunately, the author does not address this very important question.