#187. The Defining Decade: Why Your Twenties Matter - and How to Make the Most of Them Now
#Meg Jay
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Defining-Decade-Your-Twenties-Matter/product-reviews/B007V6490S/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I am glad I read this book when I did and I am currently twenty one years old and always felt like I was stuck. I finished this book today and I think it will benefit me for the rest of my twenties. The author brings up many important topics that I never considered, like being underemployed, how important it is to have acquaintances, and discusses the importance of planning out your life sooner rather than later. Many things about this book stand out to me and I feel like I can really relate to each client she writes about. Urban tribes, choosing a family, all of these things are so important for us twenty somethings to take into consideration. This was a really well written book and I recommend it to any millennial.

I would one hundred percent recommend this to anybody in their twenties, or anybody who has kids in their twenties, or anybody who will be in the twenties one day. All of you, read this book, immediately, not to sound bossy even though I definitely am. This book really opened my eyes, and also made me feel all warm and fuzzy and humble to know that all the issues I have been having are experienced by others too. Other crazy twenty something folks who, like me, feel a little confused by this messy, wonderful, stressful, and overwhelming thing called life. The author does an amazing job of making it all seem perfectly normal, so here I go Meg Jay, off to be intentional, get to work, pick my family, make my own certainty, and decide my life right now.

I watched TED talk of this author in a college class and was inspired to immediately purchase her book afterwards, however, I did not pick up the book again until a couple years later. It has quickly become a favorite personal growth book for me, and I recommend it to any twenty, something or anyone who knows someone in this age group. The author understands twenty somethings like myself so thoroughly. In her book, she touches on her own young adult experiences as well as those of her clients to illuminate the struggles that these endure and even slumber through. The author reminds us that this decade is not a purgatory period before life begins. It is an opportunity to prepare for the life you desire to have as an adult. Addressing occupational, romantic, and physiological changes occurring during this decade, the author guides her readers towards self actualization in adulthood by simply claiming your twenty.

I am a sixty year old mother of a twenty six year old woman and I have struggled to help her navigate this period in her life that has been tough. I am also a therapist but I am entangled emotionally with the author. The way the author describes this period really articulately describes what my daughter has been going through. I wish I had read this book a little sooner. My daughter is beginning to emerge from the hardships to the productive adult side of this critical period. I immediately told my daughter this is a must read and if she would download it to her kindle, I would certainly pay for it. I highly recommend this book for parents, their kids, particularly as they graduate from college or enter their twenties, and for any therapist that works with this age client. I think Meg Jay is a fabulous mentor and I am glad she has worked with this age group and that she wrote the book.

Being someone in her early twenties, I believe honestly all of what the author says in this book is phenomenal and insightful. I see people my age, and older, who are still lost in a lot of ways in life, and I think this book is a great guide to anyone post college. Either by giving you thoughts you agree with and see in yourself to change and some means on how to do it, or more perceptively helping you think about where you are going and how to be intentional before you start seeing the years passing you by. Unfortunately life can keep you from being as intentional as you want in all these facets at all times, but to keep these things in mind as you go through life, I think is critical and important. For the twenties and even maybe early thirties of your life, this is the How to Win Friends and Influence People guide you should hold onto and come back to regularly.

The great thing about this book is ability of this author to make it relatable to twenty somethings like me who are puzzled as to where to go in life. What leaves a great impression in me is Ian and Cathy story, the former being felt like swimming in a vast ocean with no land in sight and the latter living a self destructive life due to not being wanted and conflicted her whole life. And like every good book, this book helped me change my view on certain things like love and relationship. I thought love and relationship are something that should take a back seat during your twenties, but turns out it is more about knowing what to get relationship. Though the downside this book made me scared, trying to do everything in your twenties feels daunting, but still, this is a great book and I did not regret purchasing it.

This book is great for really showing how important your twenties actually are. I would suggest it to people just entering their twenties, in their twenties and to late teens, however, I do not think most people in their late teens would really have the right mind set to appreciate or take in the message of the book. This book also allows for people in older decades to better understand people in their twenties. The book provides lots of narratives for people to connect to and apply to their own lives. With that said however, I am not sure later generations of twenty year old would be able to do the same since they might not be experiencing the same general things that today twenty year old do. Overall I am glad I read this book and get to keep it in mind as I go on with my twenties and the rest of my life.

I have two daughters in their early twenties and I work as a counselor or life coach. This book was a powerful reminder of how much the world has changed since I was in my twenties, but how similar our longings and desires are no matter our age. I recommended this book to my daughters and all their friends and they have loved it as well. As a parent, it has helped me to ask better questions, show support in different ways, and encourage my girls that they are doing just exactly what they need to be doing, even when it feels really hard. This is a tremendous resource and I am so grateful I found it.

This book strikes the perfect balance of validation, inspiration or motivation, and reality check. The case studies she uses as examples are all relatable and accessible. I was constantly blown away at how amazingly put together this book is. I have just finished reading it and since starting the book I have set goals in many different aspects of my life and developed plans to achieve them and I feel more confident about my future and about what I want out of it. I know some people may feel silly reading self help books because of the stigma that usually accompanies them, but this is so much more than that. I am buying books for all of my friends and I think it is a must read for all adults especially those in your twenties.

I have become a self proclaimed walking advertisement for this book. One of my close friends recommended it to me when we were both twenty and looking ahead to college graduation, future jobs, and futures with our long term boyfriends. I am now twenty three and I can truly say that I have gained a whole new perspective on my twenties and myself. Every time I catch up with one my friends who is also in their twenties, this book comes up in conversation. It absolutely applies to every aspect of our lives, especially those we worry about most often. I just passed my copy along to my twenty year old sister and am so excited for her to find the beauty in this book just like I did.