#188. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks
#Rebecca Skloot
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Immortal-Life-Henrietta-Lacks-ebook/product-reviews/B00338QENI/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

On the one hand, this was an important book. The medical and social history and Henrietta story held my attention at first, and I was fascinated by the whole concept of this disadvantaged black woman raised in a very racist society providing the world with such an important and far reaching medical breakthrough, however, as the book progressed, parts of it felt rather repetitive. Just how many times can one repeat that certain members of the Lacks family believed that John Hopkins made millions off of Henrietta cells and wanted to sue or that some family members believed that Henrietta had been cloned. At some point, I felt that the book was over, but I still had many pages to go, in short, I do not regret reading it.

Let me start off by saying the millennium series is one of my favorite, if not favorite books series of them all, but this book specifically let me down. I went into this book craving more Elisabeth Salander but ended up getting too much information about characters I really did not care about. The plot was okay, not as good as the other books, but overall just too much information. There were at least thirty characters and different story lines it made the book confusing and hard to read. I was so sad that this is the last book Steig Larsson left. I am glad I finished the series but very disappointing ending to one of my favorite stories and I could have gone without reading this.

The Lacks family has contributed a great deal to people worldwide and hopefully can begin to find peace. As for the book, a friend and colleague had recommended it. Based on this, I did not read reviews before buying but mistakenly expected it to contain a great deal more about science and science history. At this point, I am really struggling to finish and only the fact that I spent hard earned money on it will compel me to do so. Of course, your mileage may vary depending on your interests and expectations.

I found the topic of book interesting and think it is commendable of the author to pay tribute to Henrietta Lacks and her family for what the cells have done for the advancement of cell research. I found the book to drag though and had a tough time making it through to the end. I also found it a bit difficult to keep track of the characters in the story. As a historical recount of how Henrietta Lack cell came to be used in cell research, the people involved in the history of it and how Henrietta family was affected by it, the book does a good job of covering all the details. It also makes you think about the ethics around people and their cells, organs and how they are used in the medical research. In terms of a compelling read the makes you want to follow it through to the end, I think the book falls down.

The book came all dented with two hundred pages bent and ripped and the following torn up. Very disappointed at the packing job and I would give less stars but I do not want it to seem that the content is flawed. This is a compelling case that I had assigned for my BSN and was a usual piece in bioethics. If you have any desire to explore a case that has sparked a medical revolution and helped fuel the personal information protection fire this is a must read.

I like the idea of this book more than I liked the book and I felt like the author did not ever get to where she was going with this, which may be the reason why it took so long for it to get finished. It seemed that interviews were complete and it sat for ten years. The ending was like an entry in a diary and she did not really discover who Henrietta was as a person. At times the book focused more on the science which was definitely interesting, but I think there was too much of a mix of science, conjecture, and fiction. There was speculation on the mistreatment of blacks by John Hopkins but no true facts to back that up. I guess it did make me think, but I have more questions and less answers.

Another book deserves much better than this book and I liked The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. I could barely finish the this book, actually, I just skipped ahead to the end and I am still trying to get through this one. The character Salander is a great character but the author dose not do enough with her in any of the books. The character Salander obviously is not really get into the mind of his own character of Lisbeth since he has her figuring out equations in her head or just staring at a spot on the wall much of the time. The focus is on Blomkvist, an arrogant womanizer. I agree with one reviewer who said they thought the author was reliving his adolescent fantasies since all these women seem to fall for Blomkvist, but there dose not seem to be any real character development so it is very hard to see why he is so attractive to these women. Also, there is a subplot about the married mistress, Erica, that is just stupid and annoying. The character Erica is supposed to be this big time newspaper editor but has a stalker and apparently this stalker has stolen stuff that shows her in a threesome with her husband and another man, attending sex parties, having an open marriage. I like to think I am pretty open minded about a lot of stuff but really, all it did was take up space in a book that did not really have enough going on with the main story.

Sometimes the second book is a series is merely a springboard for future events, that appears to be true in The Girl who Plays with Fire. The story line slowly picks up from the first book but with some disconnected elements that neither grow the main character of Lisbeth Salander, nor do they advance the story in any meaningful direction. By the time the ball gets rolling we are subjected to a slowly growing mystery surrounded by limp minded characters who struggle to figure it out. As a reader, I was intrigued as to where it was going until I figured it out half way through, after that the fun was gone. The remaining pages lead into unsatisfactory action sequences developed without pretext. The question is, am I still entranced enough to find out where this could possibly go in the third book, the answer is yes. Lisbeth Salander is a good enough character to carry you all the way through. The action of the books, whether captivating or sleepy never seems to hurt her strength as a driving force towards turning the next page.

I had such hopes for this series after the joy of The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, but it may have been merciful that the series ends at three. The first novel was positively Hitchcockian, with its gray moodiness and flashes of action and proof that escapist stories can still shine with craftsmanship. The second was a mess that only Michael Bay could love, an endless stream of absurd fights, cheap Dan Brown style cliffhangers and characters whose quirks became inhuman. This third entry felt like little more than a long and slow epilogue to The Girl Who Played With Fire. A healthy early chunk of the book is spent plodding recapping the second. The meat of it plays out in the straightest and narrowest of lines, bad guys plot lazily, good guys out think them and evil is thwarted in an emotionless climax. I suspect Larsson was planning to use this novel as a transition, tying up loose ends and setting a clean emotional table for the fourth novel. Despite the news that his partner is cleaning up his work on a fourth, or possibly fifth, story, I am checking out now.

This book was definitely worth my time and I enjoyed the first half of it very much. I am glad to know about the woman whose cancer cells have made such an important contribution to modern science. The story of the cells was spellbinding, entertaining and educational, however, I do not think the last half of the book and the minutia was necessary or flattering to the family, most particularly Deborah. It was haunting though, particularly about what became of the daughter who was institutionalized. The fact that Henrietta lost her battle with cancer and left children who grew up without her is a tragedy. Poverty and ignorance is an injustice and tragedy in our wealthy nation. All of us, including her family, are served by the miracle of her cells and the brilliant scientists who use them for the benefit of mankind. I would recommend this book because the first half of it is great.