#190. The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America
#Erik Larson
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Devil-White-City-Madness-Changed/product-reviews/B0000DE6QB/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I probably should have read the description a little more closely. I thought this book would cover the World Fair and Holmes in equal amounts, but this book does not. I will admit, the author thoroughly researched both topics, but it was clear to me his focus was on the architecture of the World Fair. The author is very detailed, but sometime it was almost too much detail. I am admittedly more interested in Holmes than architecture so that has something to do with my review. If you are reading this because you want to hear about Holmes, you may want to read a different book, however, if you are open to learning about the World Fair, architecture, or Chicago history, this is worth the read.

I gave it two stars because of its historical significance and I love to read about history, and the story of Chicago Fair was fascinating, both as to how it evolved and how it ultimately ended up. The other story in the book about the serial killer was far too macabre for me, and I had to skip over most of it that was simply pure gore. And I still do not understand the relationship between the two stories other than the fact that they occurred at the same time in the same city. Bottom line is that I am sorry I bought the book and cannot recommend it to anyone.

To everyone who told me this is a great book, did you tell me the correct title. I really struggled to get through this. I appreciated the story, maybe because I teach United States history, but I felt this was so badly written or edited my overall reaction was to just barely tolerate the book. To me, not at all worthy of the buzz and praise this book got, but it saved me money by convincing me not to buy any more Erik Larson titles, or other historical fiction which is pretty much a contradiction in terms for that matter. Not a waste of time, but neither was it a good use of time.

The book is written well, very easy to read, unlike dry history books. However, the book itself is more about the fair than Holmes. The passages are few and far between, always jumping around and leaves readers left to wonder what happened to his wife and child. Also, the book has pictures but very few of the fair, for a city so spectacular you would think the author would provide more context. Additionally a simple Google search will provide you with image of the house of horrors Holmes built. I did not like how the author hastily finished his story and he goes from the fair to Texas Boston Philly and jail all in a sentence.

I enjoy reading novels and true accounts of murder investigations and this was not one that I enjoyed. I think this book might be readily accepted by students and lovers of architecture, but I did not think that was the intent of this book. The title of the book implies something sinister, which the murderer was, however, I found myself skipping over multiple pages until I got to parts that dealt with the murders which were few and far between. This is just my humble opinion but unless architecture rings your bell do not purchase this true account if you are searching to read a good work based on an actual murder case.

Okay, I read the book, it has been around for a long time, and after getting around to reading it, I have no idea why it has been such a popular title. So back in the 1890, some wealthy Chicago architects and businessmen decide to host the most fabulous world fair ever. In the process, they have to overcome many disasters and problems. Far too much attention is given to the NYC landscape architect and his vision, indeed the fair itself is handled almost as an afterthought. The devil turns out to be a diabolical, charming pharmacist, entrepreneur who kidnaps and grimly murders a number of young women to sell their skeletons to medical schools. The only connection between the fair and the devil is that some of the women he accosts made the mistake of venturing to Chicago in search of jobs at the fair. Most interesting to me was that a fellow named George Ferris erected a gigantic wheel that had cars in which people could ride attached to it, hence, the invention of the Ferris wheel is made known.

I truly do not understand the popularity of this book. It does appear to be quite well researched, but the writing is also quite bad. This book is a chore to read, due to the poor quality of the writing, a lot of nuance is lost in the descriptions of Holmes and his psychopathy. The same overwrought descriptions are forced upon the reader time and again with all the grace of an elephant kicking an egg. All the topics presented are simplified due to the bad writing, and this renders the fair and the killing spree of Holmes both very boring.

I went into this book having heard a lot of hype and people saying they loved it. Even as I was reading people were saying how much they liked it, I now let me say I did like the book but after hearing all the hype my expectations were high. Apparently too high cause though I enjoyed it I was underwhelmed and this book is a good read and I did learn a lot which was fun but word to the wise keep your expectations in check as you start reading. As a lover of true crime I was kind of disappointed on that front as well, again big build up.

I really wanted to like this book, the intertwining of the Worlds Fair with a notable serial murderer seemed like a win for me. Once I started reading I kept hoping for the chapter to end and I do not feel as if the chapters on Holmes were well presented, I wanted more detail on his methods and madness but never got it. The majority of the book and descriptions are spent on the Worlds Fair itself down almost to the smallest of details. Larson tried to bring both stories together on occasion taking Holmes to the fair itself two to three times does not really relate the Fair and the Murders, Murderer together. I would rather he focus on one or the other and it seems the focus was mainly on the Worlds Fair with some Holmes added as intrigue. If you are interested in learning about the workings and planning of the Chicago Worlds fair, this is the one for you.

This book, The Devil in the White City, was chosen by our book club as our monthly read. The synopsis sounded quite intriguing and although non fiction, I was hopeful for a quick, exciting read, instead I found the book to be quite boring in places and incredibly slow. I was, however, amazed at all the familiar names that were involved during that time and I was hoping more time would have been spent on the devil instead of so much time being spent on the architecture and building if the White City. That is where the book became extremely slow and boring. I am certainly not likely to read any additional works by Erik Larson.