#193. The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York
#Robert A. Caro
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Power-Broker-Robert-Moses-Fall/product-reviews/0394720245/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

On the whole, as for the amount of information contained in this biography it truly does merit a high rating. The author was quite fastidious is gathering and gleaning all that is included in the work. I was somewhat inundated with all the data presented. I know to many the author will still be held in high regard, his name still appears apparently on many landmarks that he built in his long association with the city and state of New York. What I look for mainly in a biography is one that tells about the person, unbiased and factual, this is such a book. It matters little whether I do or do not hold them in high regard, and that is the way I tend to view the book, information on people or subject that influenced or made a mark on society in some way. It is a rather lengthy book but I do recommend it to anyone who enjoys biographies as it is one of the best I have read to date.

This book rates as one of the best most interesting, fascinating well written books I have ever read. The book is known as a classic with good reason. As a native New York who grew up in the city, I can well remember the dilapidation in the city building stock, the disgusting mass transit system and the legendary traffic jams. What I never realized is how different the city could have been and how one man could almost be held responsible for the pitiable plight of the city. How he destroyed neighborhoods, how billions were spent on road building which only exacerbated the traffic jams instead of on modernizing and extending mass transportation. I am surprised that episodes from this book have not been made into a movie because any one of them is fascinating enough. The book is hard to hold because of its size, but also hard to put down because of the story and the skill with which the author exposes his subject to the reader and I was sorry when the book ended.

I enjoyed every second I spent reading this and, truthfully, it took me many seconds as I read this over the course of one year. The author offers a reader so much by explaining how power in local governments works and how individuals can wield their influence over people and projects indefinitely. What I appreciated most about this book are the efforts of this author in defining other power barons of the twentieth Century such as Roosevelt and Rockefeller. Some might argue that these portions of the book could have been edited down, but their inclusion made for a richer reading experience and almost offered mini biographies of the subjects. This is a tremendous work and I am better for having read it.

This is the best book I have read in years. It is nothing less than an outstanding piece of scholarship. The author has taken us through more than two generations of the history of the City and State of New York. The story of Robert Moses as told by Biographer Caro is in many ways the exploration of the growth of modern New York City. Moses made an impact on the City in a way that almost cannot be overestimated. It is impossible for me to conceive of what the City would have been like without his influence. Unfortunately, like most persons of great power, the author believed that his goals were sufficiently laudable to overcome his occasional deceit, strong arming, and other abuses. Do not let the daunting length and significant detail be off putting and this book is worth the time, cost and effort. The author has a penchant for outstanding work, as evidenced more recently in the first two volumes of the history and this is certainly the equal.

This book is a lesson in the use of power in the life and career of Robert Moses, and the consequent effects upon the people and substructure of New York City. Moses is such a disgusting figure, such a tyrant, that I literally found myself shaking at points. The press was in his pocket, elitist and racist, Moses painted himself as the selfless public servant. In reality, he cast people aside by the thousands in order to increase his power and accomplish what he wants, what a vile man. I will never look at New York City the same again and I pray that I would never treat people the way he did.

I purchased this after having read the works of this author on Lyndon Johnson. Very much like those books, this is a study of what makes a bad person who accomplishes great things tick. My one grip about all of the books by the author is his tendency to belabor a point, the repeat over and over the same set of facts at times. At times I wonder if this was due to the writer having too many research cards and not being able to discard any of them when actually composing his thoughts. Overall, this is a very thorough historical work that is definitely not dry in its narrative style and should be read by anyone interested in power and motivation.

I am still reading this very big book, but I can not put it down. It reads like a novel, but it all really happened. This is how government really works. To those who say it is okay if government is given great resources, because we can vote to remove those running the government, this will be an eye opener, even though it dose not have any particular political point of view. The author held huge power, was unaccountable and unelected. It is also the story of someone who started out as an idealist, meaning well, who really wanted to help others. There is something about power that changes a point of view. The author goes beyond the facts, to get the essence of not only Robert Moses, but the background and motivations of those around him and what a colorful lot they were and this book is above all a good read.

I grew up in New York and was vary aware of his works and their contributions to the livability of the City and surrounding areas. I was also in the same class as Robert Moses grandson so had more of an awareness of Moses than most of those who live New York. The book details his life, his intellectual brilliance, and his careful crafting of his path to virtually unlimited power. His accomplishments are legendary but less well known is how his stubborn conceitedness ruined many of the aspects of City life and destroyed any and all who opposed him. His negative influence on the City is at least as important as his positive influence and, having lived through his major negative affect, the spreading of slums through the City, I found it harder and harder to read and never did finish the book. The author is a fantastic biographer and this book is every bit as good as his later multiple volume biography of Lindon Johnson.

The author remade my New York State geography, my New York State political beliefs, in writing this scathing biography of Robert Moses. I read this book fifteen years ago, and ever since then I have never seen a highway in the same way as I did before. You do not have to come away hating Moses, however, come away with a new understanding of how our modern world of highways, parkways, and public lands were created. This is an indispensable book for anyone interested in the history of the twentieth century. It is absolutely required reading for anyone who enjoys history, urban development, or biography and the Power Broker is an unforgettable book.

This story took me back to the beginning of the twentieth century in New York. I could almost visualize the city, with is growing populations of immigrants, the industrial growth with all the grime, dirt, and corruption and here and there remarkable stories of hope, vision, and courage and the early progressives kept their dreams alive despite many disappointments. Most of all this is a story of one remarkable man who pursued his dreams. This book is like reading a good mystery story. Since this author is an historian, he has the gift of writing about history which brings to his work a sense of drama.