#194. The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus
#Richard Preston
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Hot-Zone-Terrifying-Story-Origins/product-reviews/0385479565/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

The first half of this book is pretty interesting, gets into the origins of Ebola, several early cases and talks a lot about what it is and how it is spread, really great information. For me, the book lost steam about three forth of the way through when they are trying to control the outbreak in Virginia. This should be the high point of the book, but for some reason just kind of fizzles. Do not get me wrong, the people involved did a great job controlling the outbreak, and I thank them for their work, but the account of the operation lacks the suspense and emotion of the first parts of the book. Perhaps it is because in the end, we know the outbreak was contained. I would recommend buying this book, just to learn about the virus and combat the media generated fear, but I still have not finished the book despite quick progress at the beginning. Great information, but I just lost interest, perhaps my problem more than the author.

I fear history may be repeating itself and the author gives a thorough, thought provoking description of events from an Ebola outbreak in monkeys and delves into the possibility of it becoming transmitted across species to humans by air. In light of what is happening in Africa today, and the fact that patients are being flown into the US for treatment, it seems this is a good primer on containment and safety procedures. Before long, we will all have a Tyvek suit and mask stashed in every home alongside our fire extinguishers.

This book was written to be the most terrible story ever told and it was designed to generate fear. After all, we are talking about the worst disease ever reported in history, which kills ninety percent of all who are infected. There is no vaccine, no cure and Your body liquefies, at the end you basically melt and explode in a pool of blood, contaminating everybody who is around you, really a nasty way to go. The book has three parts and the first one tells about the first reported surges of Ebola, Kenya, Sudan, Zaire. This book is really impressive and catches one attention. The second part is about an epidemics of a fourth Ebola variety which only affects monkeys but happens to appear twenty miles from Washington. The problem is that the whole operation reported is quite technical, bureaucratic, military stuff. Very hard to get some excitement out of it. The third part is about the writer trying to find out Ebola himself. Trying to look straight in the eyes of evil and this is really, really Bad. The expedition of the writer to Kitum Cave is absolutely pathetic. The most boring description of the empty building were the Reston episode happened is embarrassing. Anyway, the story is good, the writing quite poor, full of cliches such as everybody has pale blue eyes and colonels who are fixing cereals for breakfast for their kids, but it is worth having a look, especially after the new and terrible Ebola surge in west Africa that we saw.

If you want to learn anything about Ebola or viruses in general I highly advise you search for another book. Not only did this over four hundred page book have only about a total of five useful pages of information, it also is written in a very immature fashion. This book reminded me of a high school essay in which the author ran out of info and started throwing random facts in there to fill space. The author would describe in detail the atmosphere, in poor manner first of all, only to not have it pertain to the story at all. The author also described all of the people and researchers in this book to look incredibly ill advised and lacking education, making this book a struggle to get through. Not only was the book poorly written, you can clearly tell he is unsure himself with procedures of virology and immunology. I understand the author is only a journalist, but one that does not read up on the background of the subject he is writing about first. There were a handful of facts I found downright wrong in this book, but I will give him the credit that we had less information about Ebola and aids in 1994 than we do now. Overall I do not recommend you read this book and there are plenty of other well written and informative books on this subject.

This book is for everybody from students to parents and grandparents. With automation, cyborgs, robots and algorithms running our lives while we text away it lays bare an architecture that essentially spells the most amazing technological feats you can imagine, yet there is a missing element in the wonders of technology and data that are coming every month, where does humanity fit into all of this. Is it possible to call a halt while humans decide where to take all this, or will any such halt be overruled by corporations, the biggest benefactors of all this. After you read this amazingly lucid book written by a mind as crystal clear as the Mediterranean, you will either be thankful that you will not be around when biological and technological algorithms take god place. You will also spread the word to your kids and grand kids that this book is a must to prepare for the future if they do not want to become a new class of humans that the author calls the Useless Class, aka of no use for anything. Even if half of it comes true, Home Sapiens are doomed the same as Neanderrthals who we pushed to extinction. Maybe we deserve it, after all we pushed out the other forms of life to a lesser position and became the supremos, the Homo Sapiens.

I have to confess that I have not read the previous book of this author, so the first chapters did not look repetitive to me although they might be for someone who has read Sapiens. If you are looking for a book that tells you how the future will look like, this is not your book. If you are looking for a book that gives you the tools to think about how the future might look like, then you will love this book as much as I do. The book helps you to adopt a different point of view when thinking about humankind and the power of the new ideology based on algorithms and data that has developed in the current century and leave you with a blank slate to imagine how our society will evolve or disappear.

The author explores the future of humankind, jumping off from his insights from his first book Sapiens and aligning it with current studies and trends drawn from our increasingly data centered world. The theme of humankind evolving into either gods or mere processors for the Internet of All Things has been explored by many science fiction books, but the author enumerates the milestones and instances we may be actually heading into that eventuality. An enjoyable read, the author keeps it light with funny analogies and anecdotes, however, it tends to get rambling in some sections, sometimes repeating points already made clear in previous chapters.

I picked up this book soon after reading the former one and I would recommend reading in that order, although it is not a prerequisite. This book continues the discussion started in the previous book, but in contrast, it spends a lot of time hypothesizing about humanity future. In doing so, it quite strictly refrains from passing any judgments or making any ethical, moral arguments, one of the beauties of these two books. It does raise very pertinent questions which give you pause and make you think, and the perspective it provides is probably something you will not articulate to yourself easily. A great read for anyone who is interested in deeper understanding of or simply fascinated by humankind.

I read this extraordinary thoughtful chew in preparation for the new year and this book was a wide ranging exposition on where we have been and where we might be going. I always review the references and am humbled by the amount and scope of documented research that goes into the creation of a work of this magnitude. I must say I found some of the predictions to be dark, not hopeful. I was happy in the end that the author reminded his readers that these are not predictions but only possibilities and the outcomes will be up to us. Definitely one of the most important books I have ever read and it brings together so many threads and ideas, including philosophy, religions, psychology, neurology, artificial intelligence, natural sciences, to propose a very compelling narrative on how the human society and individual condition might change as technological development will continue its evolution.



In clearing the path for the envisaged future, the author busts enduring myths of traditional religions and exposes contradictions in the basic postulates of humanism, the modern religion. You may agree or not with his conclusions but it is certain that the big questions will remain with you. A very pleasant reading too, academic but perfectly accessible.