#195. Storytelling with Data: A Data Visualization Guide for Business Professionals
#Cole Nussbaumer Knaflic
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Storytelling-Data-Visualization-Business-Professionals/product-reviews/1119002257/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

As a professional working in one to one marketing, I feel like too often we succumb to flashy junk charts or otherwise ineffective presentations of data. This book seeks to break this habit by teaching typical BI professionals about how to more effectively communicate using data. The depth at which the author discusses each of the primary topics is appropriate for the majority of applications and the visuals presented are top notch. That praise aside, if you are looking to go even deeper about individual parts and pieces of charts and tables, I will also recommend you pick up Stephen Few Show Me The Numbers, as he gives an incredibly comprehensive view on the micro level of visualization design. In my opinion though, this book covers enough ground for the majority of readers and is a great way to up your game when it comes to presenting to a variety of audiences. I am going to recommend it to my colleagues as a way to lift the quality of data visualization in my department as a whole.

Grateful to come across this book for several reasons. Firstly, my path to better data visuals was to save PowerPoint decks from other internal teams who had great design and message communication, I did not understand what those good design elements were until this book came along. Secondly, how many times have you read a comprehensive topic wondering what did I just learn. The author concludes each chapter with a Conclusion summary and concludes the book in the same way with a summary of the key points. Have copied them into my own cliff notes summary for quick reference. Thirdly, the author provides numerous references to further advance our interest. This book is one resource that will stay in my active read list on the Kindle App.

Years ago I heard about storytelling to present the messages, that I wanted to get through to the audience, but as a financial analyst my main focus was to create the data and present it in nice ways. And as an instructor in Excel Dashboards I was more focused on techniques for graphing presented by authors like Edward Tufte and Stephen Few. But when I came across this book Storytelling With Data, it added an extra dimension to my understanding of how I could get the message to the audience. Finally I understood storytelling, and how it can benefit me as an analyst.

This is a beautifully written, helpful book that no data should be without. The author touches on key elements of producing not just an informative visualization, but one that truly engages the audience and helps them immediately see the story it tells. The book is an easy read and full of very helpful before and after visualizations that really drive her points home and are practical regardless of the platform you are using to share your data from Excel to Tableau and beyond. I read the whole book in an hour and immediately went to work incorporating her recommendations into a visualization being prepared for a client. The end result was cleaner, more aesthetically pleasing and did a better job telling the data story, a must read.

I have been working with data for ten years and I really wish that I had a copy when I started my career. I borrowed a coworkers copy and then immediately bought my own so I could lend it to my family members. The best part is the author identifies the truly horrendous examples out there then through a step by step process shows how to make them more effective. It is a very handy reference that I recommend to anyone that makes a living communicating data to decision makers.

This book has become my right hand resource for creating reports and presentations that clearly communicate their intended story or message. As a market research consultant, I often have to walk that fine line between a data statistics heavy report to please the research department, and a higher level, give me the top five take away presentation for senior leadership. The author has done an excellent job demonstrating both the how and the why of information displays in a way that is clear, concise, and compelling. I am both a better researcher and a better communicator for having bought and read this book. I hope Cole keeps on writing and I would highly recommend this to anyone who is tasked with summarizing and communicating data visually. I promise, you will not be disappointed by this book.

This is such an incredible book and one can read user design books and Dashboard books. But this book looks behind the scenes at how our brains work and how we process data, and gives us such an incredible depth and breadth of insight into the mind and into how it sees things, and how one can use this knowledge to direct someone to the important things in our presentations. Remember the white space and music is made by the pauses between the notes, as much as the notes themselves. Thanks Cole for some incredible insights, just like reading a Malcolm Gladwell book.

The author takes a difficult subject and makes it understandable, by itself that would be good and worthy of praise. Clarity is always appreciated, but the author does this by employing the skills, traits, and tricks that she so clearly explains. The author implores the reader to eliminate clutter, visually demonstrates why it is important and its potential impact, then strips away at difficult concepts with clear and concise prose again and again. We readily grasp all this because of her use of context, visual display, simplicity, focus, design, and in so doing she tells a story about dealing with data and information, so that we can inform and not confuse. Perfect, but the author achieves even more because through the use of these concepts she makes them useful for everyone and not only those dealing with large data sets. The author demonstrates that which she illustrates and I am a trial lawyer. I found the chapters on thinking like a designer and lessons in storytelling to be more than helpful. From the importance of aesthetics, audience, controlling narrative flow, to repetition she provides lessons in telling stories that can benefit anyone, recommended for everyone.

A book that gives you several hints on how to present your data more clearly and in a more friendly manner, however, most recommendations require you not to be restrained by some corporate design. In my previous job we had PowerPoint template that virtually rendered most of the advice here impossible to implement, but the book is very good with numerous examples based on real life cases.

I am halfway through the book and it has already proven to be thoroughly valuable and I only expect it to get better and better. The author continually backs up data viz theory with real life samples, contrasting the good with the bad. I have already implemented many of these data visualization best practices in my line of work and have been able to provide valuable instruction to fellow colleagues based on what I have learned. This is a very enjoyable book that will surely improve the way you visualize your data, thus drawing out more insight rather than hiding it.