#198. When Things Fall Apart: Heart Advice for Difficult Times
#Pema Chodron
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/When-Things-Fall-Apart-Difficult/product-reviews/1611803438/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

All of us face really hard times if we are alive and love lots of people. I love this book and give it as gifts when I know people are going through tough times. The author has the unique ability to write in a way that you feel like a loving friend is giving you really solid, helpful, kind advice that is accessible. The wise counsel and perspective of this author through you a life jacket when you think you are going to drown. I read this book the first time when I was going through my divorce and read parts of it again when I lost my daughter to cancer. This is a book you will be glad to have and glad to give.

I have been reading and rereading this book for years and years. This is my go to book during any difficult time, and I always glean something knew regarding my current situation and the writing of this author takes away a lot of the loftiness. I have encountered while trying to read Buddhist self help books, but since the author has already gone through so much of the craziness of life, her lessons are extremely comprehensive and compassionate. I love this book because you can open it to any page and start reading and you will find something you can use, love it. Thank you author and I recommend all her books. The places that scare you is awesome and a good one for impulsive activity, including jumping to conclusions, anger, is called do not bite the hook and those are my three favorites. I guess this book would help to mention my reasons for seeking out this genre of information. I lost about fifteen pounds on my already one hundred and twenty pound frame, and contemplated disappearing whenever I was awake and it was a completely suck time. I do indeed credit the author for helping me see that I had to kick my butt into gear and grab a hold of the reins.

The title of this book is so ridiculously deceptive and this is a philosophical approach to life in general, it is not a how to on how to recover from catastrophe. I find the writer somewhat hard to tune into, but her knowledge of Buddhism combined with a modern zen acceptance of our modern day struggles makes her worthwhile. I got a lot out of this book in terms of changing my perspective towards setbacks in life. I would recommend to anyone searching for a deeper understanding of their own behavior and ignore the title and cut to the content. One of the more pragmatic approaches to reaching spiritual peace, without the new age sensationalism that most pop self help books contain.

I have read this book many times and given it away many times. Do not let the title sway you and there is advice for difficult times, but I found the book just opened my eyes, my mind, to a new way of seeing the world and that applies in just every day times. I would read a chapter, each of which are very short, and need a week to reflect on it. Read it again and there are no wasted words, you read this when you are ready, enjoy.

It takes a minute to get into the book but once you do, it is snowing Awakening, especially for those like myself who goes through life upsets like cancer. It teaches you to have peace, mental peace and I do not meditate but do believe in the ideas of this book. To sit in the moment and realize sometimes awful things happen to good people and you can still have peace with it. If you find yourself asking why me, I am a good person, this is the book for you. Give it sometime to get to the meat then you will realize what the book is getting to you.

The author writes about truly deep subjects without feeling or sounding heavy or too overwhelming to slog through. Rather, reading this book feels more like taking a walk with a friend who has great, everyday, practical insights into the way things really are. Most books that encourage one to view things from a different perspective present concepts that can be difficult to grasp but this book just nails it. This book makes simple sense and the concepts presented are more like seeing things as they actually are and adapting to a reality that we may not be accepting at the moment, more than trying to view things so radically different that we just can not manage to grasp the concepts. There is a good deal Zen teachings that support the concepts but one need not adhere to any of it to benefit from the wisdom that is presented. I dose not matter if the advice is Buddhist in origin or not, they just make good sense and are very helpful. What I like most about all books of this author is that it always brings us back to the need to loving ourselves unconditionally and then using that love to be more compassionate towards ourselves and then to the world. Being our own best friend is a theme that runs throughout most of her works and is especially helpful to keep in mind when we feel that our worlds have fallen apart.

This book saved my life and I was already meditating when a friend turned me onto it. I read the first chapter and stopped and I reread the first chapter and that is how I went through the book the first time, each chapter twice. I have read this book three or four times since and the message of loving kindness and compassion towards ourselves and others is pure love, also a gift to us all. A little further on down the road, I hit a wall in my life, my practice, my everything. Complete anxiety meltdown that rendered me almost incapacitated, almost commit able and I kept coming back to this book and looking for the courage to Lean into the sharp edges as the author writes. The writings gave me the strength to get through very difficult times and learn to hold myself dear, in turn I have now been able to share my experience with others suffering as I did and the direct teaching from this book, I do my best to share with others. Buddhist or not, this book is is one of the best I have read and I am reading it again now.

Get two copies, there will be at least one other person in your life that you will want to share this with. I have looked for this book, this philosophy of dealing with life, for all of my life. You do not have to keep that refrigerator magnet up there that says, every day, in every way, I am getting better and better, however, the author recommends one that says, abandon hope actually. By the time I read this, I had already had several belly laughs out of the book, at myself and at my current life situation, and many more surprised moments. This book taught me why I have never been able to meditate, thank goodness, now that I now how I need to. It has helped me to be able to move on in my life, something I tried to do for decades without success.

I have read several books of this author and this may be her best and her style is clear, intelligent, wise, playful, and quite convincing. This is a book that can open up a new world of understanding and, more importantly, a new way of being for someone. This book exposes our ego identity, conformity, self reinforcing nature, and the limits we constantly put on ourselves through our limited, confined thinking. This book is not, though, a depressing book but it is hopeful, realistic, and insightful. This book is like a primer on what it means to be human with both pitfalls and opportunities. We humans, it seems, in following the ego are automatically like the proverbial fish in the water that does not know it is in the water. This book is an awakening to how we keep ourselves trapped and how we can come to become free. It has practical steps, practices, and perspectives. Although the book is Buddhist, as the author is a Tibetan Buddhist practitioner and teacher, but it does not have too many technical terms.

This author has a delicious sense of humor and she is often very funny and that is one characteristic that seems to be so inherent in Buddhists, joy. Can you imagine the Pope laughing at himself, or giggling deliciously like the Dalai Lama does. The Dalai Lama wears sheer happiness on his sleeve, so does this author. And this happiness comes from great inner strength when one is at peace with himself and the world. Finding true happiness takes a great deal of work and the pursuit of happiness takes a great deal of practice, I am not there yet, and I have not learned to meditate because I can not turn my mind off of unpleasant thoughts, but I am sure that in time I will dispel angry, hurt, destructive thoughts and fractured feelings. Just reading this book left me with a curious sense of peace and I have hardly yet begun to fight, five stars for a beautiful book, a beautiful experience.