#20. God in the ICU: The inspirational biography of a praying doctor
#Dave Walker MD
#URL https://www.amazon.com/God-ICU-inspirational-biography-praying-ebook/product-reviews/B006AT9VFA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

I usually read most books that involve medical school and then experiences after graduation and I am a retired family nurse practitioner and I really miss the experiences I had with all my patients. I thoroughly enjoyed my career and enjoy books that accurately depict the facts. This can be a tough profession at times, so much so that many people ask why would an intelligent person seek to devote their lives to what can be punishment a lot of the time. It has to be a calling to truly be a good doctor, and apparently Dave Walker felt called to devote his live to patients in need. I thoroughly enjoyed the authenticity as well as the emotional impact the book had on me, if health allowed, I would still be working.

This memoir is sometimes heartbreaking and sometimes his faith is so strong, but just like most people it does falter. You will have to read it to find out why and when and such a strong faith he has in God and what this man and his family went through the good and the bad. That is why I read the entire book and one of the most inspirational parts for me was when he was living and working in other countries there were several, I will not give it away though.

I was blessed by Walker and his amazing faith in God, especially his witness and prayers with his patients in the ICU. He truly was a praying doctor who had faith in a loving God and introduced him freely to others and I was inspired by his book and lifestyle.

If you were facing surgery or had a loved one hanging in the balance it goes without saying, you would want such a doctor to attend to your care. His documentation of ways he has witnessed God intervention is inspiring and refreshing.

An intriguing story about the spiritual journey of a doctor and his mission to ask for God help in healing the critically ill people he cared for. Starting with an uncertain, tremulous faith, it was thrilling to watch this young doctor spiritual growth and intimacy with God develop. The protagonist was on a mission not just to heal bodies but to bring God into the lives of the patients he cared for. It was fascinating to see how God works miracles of healing even today and how he used the growing faith of this doctor, to accomplish his will and work. The book never dragged just was wonderful from page one through the epilogue and I highly recommend it especially for those in the medical field.

This book was not quite what I expected in that is was more like vignettes with life lessons than a traditional biography, but it was good. I did read though it in its entirety just not all at one sitting which I often do. Sometimes I took a break in between chapters to think through what he had written.

I very much enjoyed this book and I appreciated the doctor insights and conclusions. I understand that God has a plan, but sometimes I felt very sad that we do not understand the plan and are left thinking that God is going to do what he is going to do and our prayers are ineffective. I can not help thinking that a few obvious miracles would help give us courage and the doctor faith is obviously greater and I am happy to have his example.

This eighty two year old widowed missionary never expected to see a new direction from reading your book. You encouraged me to feel that life was not over and ministry was not done with your stories of God answering prayer. I am encouraged by your many examples to trust God for a way to continue ministry to hospice with prayer, thank you for blessing me through your writing.

What awesome stories of God love and healing power, a great reminder to never give up asking God to heal. Inspirational and realistic as we ask God, but are reminded that not all get healed in the way we hope for. In those times when healing does not come as we expect, we question where is God, why did not he answer and he is still there, and he is still God, powerful and loving. Thanks to the author for sharing this story and of course, to our Heavenly Father.

As a fellow believer in Jesus Christ and the Christian faith, and as one who desires to further my medical education and I was so encouraged by this book. I had so many questions that this book answered, even down to the very day I asked them. I loved the fact that every ending was not a fairy tale, depicting the raw emotion of medicine when dealing with the sick. I also love how God was able to teach Walker a lesson that he so graciously shared in each example given in his book. I will be reading this book over the course of my life and am confident that God will continue to speak to me through Walker experience, I recommend this book.