#200. Billion Dollar Whale: The Man Who Fooled Wall Street, Hollywood, and the World
#Tom Wright
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Billion-Dollar-Whale-Fooled-Hollywood/product-reviews/031643650X/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

First the praise, this is very readable account of an almost incredible financial fraud. The sums of money involved are mind blowing and for the principal culprit to have achieved this from a starting point of an everyday regular person is inspiring or terrifying according to your viewpoint. Large numbers of celebrities are identified as having essentially demeaned themselves for financial reward. This is the tabloid approach, including micro detail about what champagne they drank, where they drank it, where their jewellery came from. Alas, though, the analysis of the financial fraud leaves vast numbers of questions unanswered, just one example that the Malaysian, as he is frequently referred to throughout the book, regularly deceived the banking community by opening accounts in the names redolent of huge and solid financial institutions. The tabloid reader might be inclined to think What a cunning rogue but the reader seeking quality journalism wants to know how such an obvious trick managed to fool the banks. To put this into more everyday terms, if I opened bank accounts with names redolent of Warren Buffett or Bill Gates, the bank which believed me might well expect huge cash flows to appear, but they would surely realize that this could well be the fraudulent action of a money launderer and would undertake due diligence to ascertain the veracity of the account. Issues such as this are not pursued inside the book.

The fraud was massive in scale and the authors did a thorough job in researching, however, it was very repetitive. The book feels like it was written against a deadline or collaboration between the two authors. At times, the same information is repeated, nearly verbatim, in multiple paragraphs. I found the repetition distracting, either flesh out the full story and create some cohesiveness, or edit it down to about one third of the content. How many times can you possibly tell us that Low was known for his outrageously extravagant parties.

This book is an incredible story of a young man who was convinced in his youth that he was entitled to become a member of the world of the wealthy and share in their greed and acquisitive DNA. The protagonist is a real and current person who lived the higher than high life built upon a house of cards. Calling upon the greed and avarice of the Uber wealthy who feel the rules do not apply to them, the protagonist played the game well, kept his name low on the radar, and is now hiding out somewhere in China with enough wealth to live well. Though the schemes unfold rapidly due to technology, they continue to involve the banks, investment brokerage firms, real estate and luxury auction houses. With old story, new characters, this book is an incredible tale, however, the book is simply a chronology of events told in a simple expository manner. Though it is non fiction, I believe it could have been told in a more interesting and clever way and it was similar to reading a series of news articles.

A deserving topic but the treatment reminded me at times of two popular daily Malaysian newspapers I read on my frequent work trips to Kuala Lumpur as this was occurring. This book is dense in pages, names and events but a mostly unedifying jumble, tabloid and as awkwardly trendy in its syntax in persona. The constant use of ahead of for the preposition before heightened the impression of reading a splashy newspaper column rather than a serious book.

Mostly, the book reads like a collection of somewhat disjointed articles glued together for the sake of presenting a larger narrative. In this sense, it is successful, as all the facts, figures, and players are collected in one convenient place for your consideration. However, this book dose not make for riveting stuff, especially when chapter after chapter the authors employ the same formulaic structure, hook, exposition, cliffhanger, but I will chuck that to personal taste. The biggest issue I have with the story is that for all of their work exposing this scandal, the authors failed to infuse its consequences with enough gravity to have me care about it. In The Smartest Guys In The Room, the Enron scandal, the consequences were clear that the people of California whom the company gamed to inflate its profits and the legions of employees that lost not only their jobs but their pensions and savings as well.

I know this is reality and I should be fascinated, but there are so many people and names involved that it was hard to follow what was happening and who everyone was. It is an complex story that the author did not really make easy to follow. With this type of subject matter it is important to have a structure that makes it easier to understand. Skipping around locations, threads of the story, dates. makes the story harder to follow. Besides, none of these people were likable or relatable so the story was hard to keep going.

It is very important though and can be summarized as follows, Joh Low, a Malaysian con man, despite lack of contacts and experience, tricks the prime minister and his wife into thrusting him with a one billion USD sovereign fund from which he promptly steals a cool seven hundred million and nobody apparently cares as he burns money in the US on celebrities, lavish parties and the like. Not content with the money, Joh Low engineers an additional heist, this time with the help of Goldman Sachs who, for a very large fee, and despite any type of convincing business plan, underwrites a two billion bond issue which the con man again steals a large part. Lots of people wen to jail, including the prime minister, and taxpayers will foot the bill for the adventure, Joh Low still missing, though.

This book could really have been summarized in a few news articles and it has been. The book has other fun details about Joh Low partying with Paris Hilton and Busta Rhymes, but the true details of the fraud could have been distilled to a much shorter format. Also, despite the length of the book, I felt the role of Tim Leisner at Goldman Sachs could have been fleshed out a bit. The details listed largely show a banker trying to win business, glad hand, and help his client, nothing new here. The banker lied to Goldman about the extent of his relationship with Joh Low and he was kind of a grease ball on the dating scene, but I am not seeing anything criminal. Overall this is an average book about fraud and political graft in a developing country and it is an easy read if you want a little entertainment.

If you are looking for a detailed, sensible and well written account of what has happened, so far, in the Joh Low scandal, you will not find it in this book which is a piece of highly confused writing when it comes to the technical details of that sordid affair. That said, if you are in the mood for what can only be described as extreme kept to crazy and spendthrift porn, this is a superb specimen of that that reads like the book long tabloid that it is. I, for one, could not put it down after the first couple of pages, which is likely not something to be proud of.

Interesting story, pertaining to current events, but once you get the story, too detailed to listen to. The story is great, but the book meanders from first person views of the perpetrators to views of the author. I would have preferred they spent more time on the reporting and how they discovered all of this. There seems to be a large sense of pride in what has been reported, but not much on how they wrote it.