#22. Milk and Honey
#Rupi Kaur
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Milk-Honey-Rupi-Kaur-ebook/product-reviews/B015X5KBJG/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Who keeps rating this book with four and five stars and I am generally one of the most open people to defining art but this stuff is not art. This is some of the most trite poetry I have ever read, and exemplifies zero skill of poetic craft and Hallmark cards are better poetry. It seriously worries me that this is what passes for poetry today and people eat it up and says more about the shallowness of readers than it dose about her poetic skill.

To me this book proved that you can write down whatever random thought you have and call it poetry and that is fine, it just was not to my taste and I should have read more one star reviews. I was looking for poetry by a young upcoming poet and maybe I am stuck enjoying an older generation of poets who grew up without the advent of social media and this book reads like a bunch of text messages.

My son want this book and I am so glad I flipped through it before giving it to him to read and it is like soft porn but I do not get how its poetry. My son thought it was a book of poems, I think, instead of wasting my time returning it, I am going to throw it in the trash, that is where it belongs.

I would give this drivel no stars if I could and this book is not even that good. Imagine teen angst, millennial self righteousness, and badly written soft porn all rolled into one.

I made the mistake of not looking at the pictures others have posted in their reviews, and instead went off the great rating, having it recommended by several people, and the cute little bees on the cover. I would give this zero stars if I could, total waste of money and it is sad this is even considered poetry at all, terribly disappointed.

I wish I could still get a refund and this book of poetry is not what I thought it was going to be like, on the real not worth the money I spent, do not buy this. If you really, truly want to read it each page of the book is still online and totally free. I was disappointed after I had finally gotten a chance to read it and immediately regretted the fifteen minutes I spent reading it. In all honesty the book is just a myriad of social media posts and it is depressingly lacking thereof a resemblance to true poetry.

I really wanted to love this book especially after reading about the author and seeing her work on social media. But unfortunately, this book does not evoke emotions for me, out of this whole book, I enjoyed maybe three or four poems. Some poems are great, while others fall short, especially the ones that are literally a couple of sentences. Overall, I can appreciate the work put into the book but it did not leave a lasting impression. Save your money and borrow this book from your local library which is where I will be donating my copy, maybe someone else will have a better experience.

I love poetry and I have wanted to buy this poetry book for a very long time and I have heard and seen it everywhere. Whenever I finally got this book, I was very disappointed since it showed up with hand prints all over the outside cover of the book and I am not sure what it is, oil or grease maybe. The poems inside are not all that impressive, just because you put space out words in a sentence does not make it a poem.

At some point and time this may have resonated with me and I found it underwhelming and for sure falling short of the expectations I had built up for it. It read to me, like unedited journal entries with recycled quotes and wisdom that occasionally got insightful. Was not disappointed by the illustrations those were the strongest part in my opinion.

This is not at all what I thought it would be and I have seen snippets of work of this author posted here and there and really loved those few, but I ended up tossing the book away and that is how much I hated it. Most of the content was pretty disturbing to me and I am no prude and I ripped out the first chapter, literally ripped them out of the book, thinking the second and third chapters would be more like the few poems I based my purchase on.