#26. The Hate U Give
#Angie Thomas
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0062498533/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_1_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-10&pf_rd_r=1HYPYX72HJMMGHK7XS9V&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=c9ba04c7-8a60-42ba-8d20-529a6e9d69f4&pf_rd_i=6960520011

I think this book presents an important topic and is relevant in today society, however, I was not impressed with the writing style. This book is almost five hundreds pages long and about two hundred of those were filled with mundane conversations and details that added nothing to the plot. I also agree with some other reviews that there were a lot of stereotypes that made it hard to read, but as I said, the story itself is relevant and will definitely spark conversations that need to be had.

This book was full of stereotypes and generalizations, but, as a high school English teacher, I totally understand why kids love this book. This book sums up the lifestyle and tribulations that many kids feel or believe to be the life they live. It brings up a great conversation about inequality and prejudice, but the characters are too stereotypical to be believable, regardless, that is just my opinion.

I like the fact that I can personally relate to some of the events that takes place in this book, so it is almost as if I have gone back into time and relived some moments. I love the fact that all throughout the book you were made to make feel as if Khalil was very much real, and that everything that happen to him you were right there. After reading this book, I cried, felt anger, sympathized, learned and laughed.

For me, the way this book was written got incredibly old after a while. At first, it was cool and charming and pulled me into the story, but after a while, you could tell the author got a little tired and it stopped being as compelling and meaningful. It felt a little bit like having a really long conversation with a thirteen year old that just will not stop telling you every little detail about the conversations she has with her friends. When the conversation started, you thought she was going to say something profound or at least make a point, but by the end, after all the, she is like and we totally cracked up, you are both exhausted and she forgot what her point was, so she just says the same thing she is been saying again. I thought that the author did a very important thing in shedding light on the gray areas of an extremely complex issue at first, but as the book went on, it was just the same thing over and over. The characters lived in a bad area, were trying to get out, but did not wanna give up on their neighborhood. The character Starr struggled with speaking out and being who she was and her white boyfriend who was white and by the end, there was a little bit of resolution, but it all felt like a shallow swipe at an issue that could have been explored much deeper than it was.

So much hype surrounding this book, so I expected amazing and ended up feeling. The beginning was so powerful that the rest of the book could not live up to it and I thought it was a bit predictable, as well.

My wife told me to pick up this book after recommending it to her entire middle school class. Naturally, I was not thrilled to read a kiddie book but boy was I wrong and it is so much more than that. It is a generational exploration of some of the thorniest issues we are facing as a people, racism, police brutality, poverty, and many more. From the eyes of a teenager, it pointedly guides us through the knowing that impacts a child the moment they realize they are black, and poor. The book presents the nuances without weakening the punch and the story is comedic and gripping and you love the characters and the story line is so easy to digest and I think it presents something for everyone.

I wrote this review in my head several times as I was listening to the audio book but now that I have finished I do not really have the words I need. It is powerful and eye opening and heartbreaking and the things these kids and this community go through is incredibly hard to face but it is important to get a different perspective and to understand. Even if you think you know, you have no idea and everyone needs to read this book, if you say you do not, that just means you do.

When I heard about this book, I knew I had to get it and I read it over a weekend and found I had to stop several times because the tears dripping down my face clouded my vision. Some parts in this book will make you sick and that is a good thing. What happened to the character Khalil is happening right now in towns and cities across America and very little is being done to stop this epidemic. While reading the book alone will not change things, it may and should change the way many people think. I added this book to my classroom library this past spring and had to order more copies because it was in such high demand.

As the author, Angie Thomas says, this is the story of a black teenager girl named Starr who is courageous, hilarious, resilient and sees the world through a lens that I will never experience nor truly understand because I have not lived it. I am white, I pay attention to the news, black Lives Matter to me and I can tell you some of the food in soul food from hanging out with my black friends, and I have teenage daughters. I am a researcher of health disparities so I read the statistics too and use phrases like entrenched injustices that persist in this country. I am grateful that Angie Thomas wrote this book because it gives life to the statistics, but also shows the tenacity and strength of Starr and her community.

The character Starr lives in two worlds and her black, run down community and the high end prep school she attends. Then the character Khalil, her best friend, dies in her arms, shot by a police office and he is unarmed and she is the only witness. These are only the first of the ingredients of a story that lead to an exciting climax with several important sub themes along the way. This is a first novel and Thomas is certainly an author that we must watch for, one of the best reads of my year.