#27. The New Negro: The Life of Alain Locke
#Jeffrey C. Stewart
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/019508957X/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_2_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-11&pf_rd_r=1HYPYX72HJMMGHK7XS9V&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=0e06daab-bc1a-4183-864f-40bbbb3f44ba&pf_rd_i=6960520011

Exceedingly important for us to know about and remember, especially given the current conditions in the United States. This is a massive tome, over nine hundred pages, well researched and lovingly written. I had never heard of Alain Locke before, but his accomplishments were profound. Hailed as the architect of the Harlem Renaissance, he gained degrees in philosophy from Harvard and was the first African American Rhodes Scholar, full disclosure.

I did not read this book from cover to cover, and would not have chosen it had I known its ponderous size unlike its subject who was quite diminutive. However, I give this book highest marks because of the quality of that which I did read, its bringing to attention the life of someone so important, and the value it would have for a researcher of African American history.

Alain locke father earned a law degree, ten years after the emancipation proclamation, a degree useless in most of segregated America. His mother was the daughter of a Philadelphia businessman instrumental in the formation and support of black institutions during the war era of the nineteenth century. By any demographic of the day, Alain was born into the small percentile of the educated class of the country, but as a black child born during a pernicious period of American segregation his lineage was remarkable. Even when his father died and his mother and he fell on harder times, his mother did not let him forget his background as a black Victorian. Highly cultured and well mannered, with an emphasis on education that led the protagonist to graduate from Harvard and study in oxford England as a Rhodes scholar, a distinction given to only a single scholar chosen from each state. As one of forty five recipients, the protagonist was the only and first black Rhodes scholar, the elite of the elite.

All make a stunning, magisterial work of art unique to any biography I have read to date, making it the quintessential template for how to write a good one. Stewart interrogation of the philosophical underpinnings of The New NEGRO, late nineteen and early twenty century black Victorianism, includes the foundation and how it was manifested by Locke, his influence on others, and on the arts and black consciousness.

This is a nine hundred page detailed biography of Alain Locke, with thirty five pages of citations for his research, Jeffrey C Stewart, a professor of black studies at University of California Santa Barbara provides an academic read for academics. This must represent years of research if not more than a decade worth and this weaves together a detailed account. The writing is on college level and it is a serious biography for people who want a deep and through biography of the first African American Rhodes Scholar, Harvard PhD in philosophy who then taught at Howard University. This speaks also to his closeted life as a homosexual and this is an long academic book, it is not a beach read biography.

If you can hang with reading a nine hundred plus page book, then this is truly an enlightening read. If you are like me, I found it too much to read cover to cover and I did take my time in reading large sections in order to write this review. What I can say with no equivocation is this book is an excellent reference book and if you are studying or doing a report on the Harlem Renaissance, then this would be great reference material since Alain Locke is not well known directly. But reach of the protagonist in the African American community runs deep and substantial and many of the people Locke came across I am historically familiar with, just not with him. The book is well thought out and very detailed starting with Locke upbringing, through his education and influence.

Stewart has recreated the world of Alain Locke and with that a glimpse into the life of Americans of African descent during the period of Locke life. This massive work gives a student of the time the everyday experiences of an educated black man who is gay and how the society around him deals with this powerful intellectual. Stewart has done his homework and told the story of a man whose life touched so many great artists, thank you Jeffrey C Stewart.

This is a daunting book in size alone and Professor Jeffrey Stewart research into Alain Locke life is, however very detailed. By the end of the book, the reader will have learned everything about the man. One asks oneself why he is not more well known and the answer will come in the end.

Alain Locke was a very intelligent and intellectual man and both of his parents were also well educated. He was the first black Rhodes scholar and he studied at Harvard, Oxford and the University of Berlin, then taught philosophy at Howard for the rest of his life. The protagonist mentored other writers like Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, and Zora Hurston and he is credited with being the founder of the Harlem Renaissance.

This was a gift for my researcher daughter, and she loved it and it was delivered with no problem at exactly the time expected. I had to buy this book my cousin wrote it and thus far very interesting and I will take it on my twenty six hour plane trip and hopefully have it completely read by the time I return.