#29. The Mars Room
#Rachel Kushner
#URL https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1910702684/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_4_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-13&pf_rd_r=1HYPYX72HJMMGHK7XS9V&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=000485c4-4b87-4b94-a03e-3885193d7070&pf_rd_i=6960520011

A haunting book about a young woman serving life in prison and how she got there, writing and dialogue spot on. It says a lot about our society and the people who have the deck stacked against them from birth. It is not a feel good book and it will make you uncomfortable but I think it is an important and poignant story.

This was a fabulous read and I loved it because it offered a realistic portrayal of a girl life on the wrong side of the tracks but could be anyone with bad luck. I lived in the area that is mentioned so could relate and fans of Orange is the New Black will love this. My only complaint was the way it ended and there needed to be more, maybe a sequel.

This is a dark book without much joy to be found, but it is real, the writing is excellent and it grabs you until the end. I could not have imagined the lives described here, but these lives exist and we just choose not to think of them.

I was looking for some good books for my holiday vacation and purchased The Mars Room based on glowing recommendations from the Today Show as one of the best reads in 2018. It was the most depressing book, with unlikable characters in hopeless situations and I kept waiting for it to get better, but as the author vetted out each character it appeared to be a race to the bottom of civilized living, with tales of living in squalor, drug abuse, sexual atrocities and pure evil. I kept going until the end, hoping something reasonable would come out of it, but spoiler alert it did not and I am giving it three stars, because the writing was decent and well thought out, but the overall book was a terrible use of my time. The true villain was the raving TV reviews, which I will ignore in the future.

Thanks Amazon for recommending this super talented new author. I picked up Rachel Kushner debut novel, Telex From Cuba, and was very impressed with the depth of her writing and research. She creates a riveting story from carefully researched history, weaving deep human insights with beautifully colored descriptions of nature and culture. She weaves her story into the fabric of Cuban history with a mastery of her craft and subject.

I loved every minute of reading this moving novel and am depressed it is over and our prison and court system in this country needs some changes. I find myself thinking of the main character, Romy, still two days later. This is a heart wrenching story of women in prison and the sad back stories that led to them being there. Kushner is a talented writer who makes you see and hear and feel the desperate humanity of her characters.

Grim and gritty, a shaggy tale of the slow spiral down a wasted life. This book is exceptionally well told, the author crafts a person, place and time so artfully. I began to look at the book sitting on my nightstand, as if it were a separate reality. You can feel the heat radiating up from the streets, smell the sour odor of hopeless resignation, the acceptance of bad choices left to rot in a hot sun. I have not finished the book yet, but the images will linger well after.

This is not a happy ending story and the women in this heartbreaking, unsentimental portrayal of women of all ages in prison, chilled me. Their stories, especially, the protagonist, Romy, will be with me for a long time. Rachel Kushner has opened a window into the brutality and humiliation endured in these places.

If this is one of the best books available now, we are all in trouble, poorly written, and somewhat disgusting. The content and style are so tedious and I never made it all the way to the end. Readers who need to know more about life in prison will enjoy it and thrive. I already had accurate impressions of institutions and the sad characters who inhabit them. I read books for enlightenment and entertainment, and I could get none from this book.

The magic of fiction is that it can take you on a ride into lives and places that you would never be or go. Kushner does a fine job of taking her readers on that ride. For me, it does not hurt that the book takes place in parts of California where I grew up. That gave me the ability to judge her prose against my own memory and, finding it fit well, to buy in more completely to the rest of the story.