#32. Charlatans
#Robin Cook
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Charlatans-Robin-Cook-ebook/product-reviews/B01N590S0Y/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I have been a Robin Cook fan a long time but this has got to be one of the worse books he has ever written and predictable and just a lousy story and save your money. If you are a Cook fan you should know this is just not what you would expect from this author. I have read and loved every book by this author and I found this book to be lacking the usual dynamic story line and suspense. This was the worst ending and I felt like it just left the reader hanging, but I would not recommend this book and it is a disappointing waste of time.

Very disappointing with an ending about as satisfying as the trial and the premise is beyond belief. It would have us believe a high school dropout as a dental assistant could fool the esteemed staff of one of this country top medical training hospitals to become a board certified anesthesiologist, not credible.

Cook has become so trite and predictable, I have come to the realization he is faltering perhaps due to age, in his novels. The author uses some big words infrequently to perhaps show he has some intelligence but his verbiage is incredibly simpleton like and every story is the same except with a slight twist. The author could have done a better job in describing each character and in his failing to do so, I was unimpressed with the plot. For a person as smart as the hero was, he is pictured as a paranoid individual who was by all intents and purposes to be highly skilled, organized and well adjusted in crisis situations. To be highly insecure at the same time is rather unreasonable in my mind.

The story slowly creeps on and on, building up the main character Noah and to me, this was not up to the usual Robin Cook stories I have always looked forward to reading. By the time it gets around to introducing other characters and a little plot, I really did not care what happened to him. It ended so suddenly, I was beginning to think there would be a follow up book.

Started out interesting but went downhill and it was a page turner and then a letdown in the end and events were not resolved and questions were not answered. Unbelievable events and characters and I like the style the author writes in, but not how the story went and ending was disappointing and bizarre.

This is formulaic, pedestrian language and I am going to finish the book because I just want to see what happens, but honestly, it is not a good read. I like medical info so do appreciate the detailed descriptions of procedures, but the character and plot development reads more like a poorly written soap opera than a good mystery and I do not like soap operas.

Using our current resource available information, I am able to share the current techno challenges in medicine today and I am facing these, daily in my physician related responsibilities. Unfortunately, these are real, being computer savvy, can be dangerous in compiling biographical profiles and credentials. Not having the added computer skills, results in deficits for of support credential documentation. While this book is factual and entertaining, it exposes our vulnerability to fraud and misdirection.

I realize there is a trend in book authorship to generalize and not offend, Robin Cook, as a young best selling author had an easy, authentic style and it was with nostalgic joy I picked up this latest book. Five chapters into the story, I found myself annoyed and disbelieving and spelling mistakes abound and editing is almost non existent. The plot is simplistic and not at all what I expected from the summary on the website and I paged through and read a chapter here and there, but my opinion did not change, awful.

Having retired from the medical field, I was disappointed at his discouraging take on medicine and where it was headed and I was also concerned about his idea that ethics and honesty could be driven by social media. While honesty and ethics is not always black and white, it is a part of ourselves and we know inside when we have violated that part.

I have read and enjoyed almost all of Robin Cook books, and this one was in the can not put it down category and several interesting conflicts are presented and you wonder how it is all going to work out. In the end, all of the morally questionable parties tacitly agree not to challenge the others and continue business as usual and can I get my money back. If you work in a hospital, you will hate hate hate this book because the descriptions of the scenarios have absolutely nothing in common with reality.