#34. The Jazz Theory Book
#Mark Levine
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Jazz-Theory-Book-Mark-Levine-ebook/product-reviews/B004KA9UX4/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I think the only thing that could make this book any better is if it came with CD of all the musical examples. I have only read the first two chapters and a lot of things have become clearer for me. I would not say this book is very the absolute novice, but if you have some theory and knowledge of your instrument as an intermediate player, you will gain a lot from working through this book. It would help to be able to read both treble and bass clef such as a piano player does but it is not an absolute must. I am a guitarist and theory is theory and a great book to buy, it does not disappoint and it will not leave you scratching your head and tossing it to the side out of frustration.

I just received this book yesterday and I am already hooked and it also came in two days too. Too long have I gone playing piano for jazz bands and jazz choirs not having a great understanding of music theory. I plan on going over this book during my summer vacation and this book has been recommended to me by several established guitar players, honestly, it is going to be lots of work but as Levine said in the introduction. Only one percent is magic, and ninety nine percent is the work you put into learning jazz theory, honestly really excited to go through this book.

My significant other is an excellent classical pianist and has wanted to learn jazz piano for a long time. I talked to several professional jazz musicians and all of them referred me to this book and I am so glad I took their advice. She has spent many evenings a week learning the various scales and chords, why the music differs from others, how it differs from others, how notes are played differently, and even how to create her own chords based on provided notes. She loves this book and I love that she loves it, highly recommended.

I have read other books on improvising, sometimes leaving me more confused in the process. Levine explanation while sometimes making my head hurt, ultimately makes sense, and helped me make sense of the other materials I have been reading and this book is well worth the read.

The best jazz music theory book out there and do you want to understand jazz harmony and theory and improve your playing and this covers everything and better yet explains it all so it makes sense. Take it slow, a page or two a day is plenty, having a piano to visualize and play the examples is even better or any kind of keyboard and I play jazz guitar and this book is amazing.

This is a bit like a sequel to the Jazz piano book and requires more knowledge about music theory to fully benefit. If you do not know how to read the notes, I would not recommend this for you unless you are ready to learn how to read. Even for us note readers, it has not been easy and I am not yet a sight reader though.

I picked this up after a long hiatus from playing jazz and this book did for me in the first two chapters what years of lessons and playing never accomplished, a logical explanation of the relationship between chords and scales. This book quickly demystifies jazz and exposes the logical workings behind the music and I credit this book for igniting my desire to play. If you only buy one Jazz Theory book, it needs to be this one.

Jazz and theory seem like opposites but indeed, jazz has a musical theory behind it. This book does an excellent job of showing you what is behind the music that seems so obscure. The book is a little uneven and may require a bit of help from your local jazz musician, but all in all, an excellent presentation of a subject that does not like it would yield to a systematic layout.

This is a big, thick book and it covers a lot of territory and although it is primarily a book for piano players, so has to be transposed for guitar. I found some very nice melodic ideas inside, that with a little effort I was able to turn into some very interesting licks and you will be richly rewarded for your diligent efforts.

I played piano for six years as a kid and off and on through high school and university. Now in my mid twenties, I have come full circle to playing again and this book is making it easy. Formatted beautifully and laid out in a common sense fashion, The Jazz Theory Book is one of the best, written by one of the best, thank you Mark.