#36. Tell it All A Woman's Life in Polygamy
#Fanny Stenhouse
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Tell-All-Womans-Life-Polygamy-ebook/product-reviews/B07KFQDQQB/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

An interesting first hand account of the practice of polygamy from the perspective of a first wife and member of a prominent Mormon family. Presents the realities of the practice and its impact on women, men and families.

A heartbreaking yet fascinating story of an amazingly strong and brilliant women who painstakingly recorded her life before. As a man I can not completely understand exactly what all these women went through, but as a human being I can certainly understand the terrible suffering that one person can bring on another.

Fanny Stenhouse is a brave, honest, courageous woman and this book is such an eye opener. What a terrible life these women lived, but to think that back in these times a woman would be so brave as to take on the church is in it self very remarkable. I would like to know how her life turned out years later with her husband and I would like to know if her daughter stayed a polygamist. Some of the language of that era was a little hard for me to understand, but other than that, the story is a must read.

Excellent book written from a first hand account of a woman who experienced life as a polygamous wife during the mid 1800. The reader gets an honest, unflinching and painful story from the author life and the sorrow and heartbreak it caused her and all of the women who had to experience this degradation. Extremely eye opening and highly recommended for anyone researching the early years of this religion and it is true impact on the lives of those who lived it.

Amazing story, can not believe it was written so long ago as the author spoke in such modern language. I felt I could relate well to her and I have a good understanding of the subject without her getting to graphic so as to be salacious in her description. I only wish she had explained how her marriage was redeemed after such horrific suffering and abuse. Also a more detailed update would have been great and what happened to the two children by wife, how did the authoress children fair. I researched further but all those details are lost to history, so we will never know.

In some ways this book confirmed suspicions and in other ways this expose proves that the late night conspiracy talk shows are wrong. The anti Christ is not coming soon and the author was already here and his name was Brigham Young.

While other readers have expressed their appreciation of Fanny Stenhouse, what most struck me was the fact that anyone bought all this nonsense to begin with. Mormonism has all the markings, even today, of a nasty cult and I just can not understand anyone having bought into and continuing to buy into this insanity in spite of what was actually in front of their lives. The higher ups in the church promised many things and did not come through on most of them. Having been once burned, how could they continue in such a self destructive fashion to continue to believe the promises of these same men.

This book is written by an educated woman who lived in polygamy in the mid 1800 in Utah and the author was very brave to write this book and suffered the consequences. The author felt that God would not make women live under such a terrible principle, as polygamy was referred to. Because of her husband work for the Mormon church, the author was in the highest circles of the Mormon elite which makes her writing very compelling reading.

For those interested in finding out the real truth about polygamy in early Mormonism this book is wonderful. I have read many books on the subject and I put this first hand account at the top of the list.

This is an insightful and eye opening account of one woman experience as one of the first English Mormons and her unhappy experience with polygamy when she and her husband moved to Zion at the behest of the Mormon Elders. I knew a little about Joseph Smith who struck me as a charlatan who took advantage of the religious awakenings that swept the western in the 1830 and beyond.