#38. I, Who Did Not Die
#Zahed Haftlang
#URL https://www.amazon.com/I-Who-Did-Not-Die-ebook/product-reviews/B01IA7TLL8/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

Najah was an Iraqi soldier and Zahed was an Iranian boy soldier and their meeting on the battlefield of Iraq war changed both their lives. Years later they both are in a clinic in Vancouver, Canada and what are the odds and they start talking and finally realize when and how they first met. I hate comparing books, but Meredith book affected me just like Rebecca Skloot books and both are not extraordinary fiction books written so beautifully and thoughtfully. These are not fictionalized tales and both tell the stories in straightforward sense ways.

Horrific, humanity, hope, heartwarming and I never would normally read a book on this topic but I saw the story and I knew I had to and I was not disappointed. Although the information I learned was hard to digest, it is for the two men, a truth that I am grateful they shared in such detail. I am glad I knew the back story before going on however as it gave me hope for the ending, overall, an unforgettable story.

What makes men survive years of torture as prisoners of war, what keeps them going when life is at its darkest. What lessons can you as the reader take from their journeys, one of the best books I read in a long time.

This book, in particular, sucked me in nearly from the beginning and reading about life in Iran and Iraq was interesting and I could not wait to find out what happened next to the two narrators. While those two things were the hook and line, the sinker was their writing style. I can be a bit picky about that and have quite many books for this reason alone and I loved their writing style so much.

This book really opened my perspective on life and it was well crafted and the real life characters were alive on each page. This book reviled the harshness of life and the absolute stupidly of war and it personalized the reasons why people joined the conflict and surprisingly it was not because they were religious zealots. With all the ugliness of war, human kindness and hope shine through, read this book, you will be glad you did.

Yes, god made man alike, with thoughts and desires, likes and dislikes, feelings and emotions, but man put the differences between us by education or lack of it, however, there is book learning and experience learning. Who is to say which is most preferable, also different country government give the subjects of that country freedom of speech or just the opposite with oppression. All men would prefer the freedom of choice to choose their governing body as well as where and how it to live versus a dictatorship. I loved entering into the lives and thoughts of these two, an Iranian and an Iraqi whose lives intersected. I could compare their lives with my own here in a free country and we are alike as god made us, but so different from our man made backgrounds.

An amazing read and I could not put it down and every time I had to. I would just sit and be in awe of how much these two had to go through. The resilience is incredible and I am glad there was a happy ending.

This was a book that shows us just what life can be like in other countries, while television shows us much of conditions in other places. The life of this man shows us the difficulties and horrors that can face someone living in a time of war and it was a harsh life of hardship, courage. I wondered just how someone can face such a life, yet always there was this hope that he could be returned to his country at the end of the war. After so many years away from his family and such suffering he returned home to face making a new life for himself, it is worth reading but not a pretty book by any means.

Though we all know war is hell on the men and woman who fight the wars in the trenches and the author clearly makes a claim as to why wars should not be fought and more and more weapons of mass destruction be made to what end. I am so glad that these two people made it through a terrible time in their lives and the author took you on the journey with the characters of the book you are there with them, great writing and I could not put it down.

Although I can not help but believe may of the events in this story are colored and exaggerated by personal memory, it deserves five stars because I am certain the stories also are a true record of those memories, and totally captivating. This is a wonderful, almost magical story full of beautiful Karma and so worth the time reading it and I also appreciate the better understanding of the war between Iran and Iraq, which was artfully inserted in the story by this gifted author.