#40. The Case for Trump
#Victor Davis Hanson
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Case-Trump-Victor-Davis-Hanson-ebook/product-reviews/B07G74WLVN/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

In a world where the intellectual class nearly uniformly despises Donald Trump, the celebrated historian Victor Davis Hanson has arrived to offer a clear eyed evaluation of how Trump became president, and what that may mean for the immediate future. This is not a propaganda defense of Trump, but an analysis of his campaign and his presidency so far, viewed from a top the shifting sands of American political landscape. I doubt if this book will make Hanson popular with liberals and I am also pretty sure he left them behind already, for the same reasons that voters left them behind, all of which Hanson outlines in this book.

Many times when you are looking at a problem, you have to back away, distance yourself, be able to look at it from a different perspective. That is why I think Victor Davis Hanson did in explaining objectively how this outside Trump with no political experience or backing, even with the polls on the day of the election, pointing to his loss, won the 2016 election. The author gave the people what they were looking for and he told them what they wanted to hear and he put his money to where his mouth is and he spoke his way into office. Yes, the author might be crazy and he might be arrogant and he might be politically incorrect, but his accomplishments thus far. The successes he has achieved are the same as the things he told his followers he was campaigning for.

The renowned historian Victor Davis Hanson once again delivers a piercing review, this time of a current president beset on all sides. Hanson thoroughly explains the historical context which brought Trump to office and why his presidency was necessary to unseat the old established order. The coastal elitist have become so detached from Americanism that they still can not grasp how Trump is president and they likely never will. America first in an age of border nihilism and must read for those who wish to understand why Trump is needed, now more than ever. Victor Davis Hanson is a national treasure for risking the backlash that this book will inevitably receive from the establishment.

This is fantastic insight from a brilliant man, if I had my choice of dream dinner guests and I would be Hanson and Victor Davis Hanson is a gift from God and I will cherish his written words till my dying day. Also, the opposition to Trump is extremely misguided and false and the facts laid out in this book prove it and if you care about facts above feelings please read this book.

Hanson is a brilliant observer who writes with the long view of politics and government of a classical historian to put the Trump Revolution into perspective. The author explains how it happened and what it means and get the book and share it with everyone that you know. I have read all of Hanson work and they do not disappoint. He wrote a book some years before anyone else noticed we did not have as much as a fence along much of our border.

I bought this book because I have been very impressed with the author and I definitely recommend this book. His brilliant and this book is a reflection of his amazing ability to observe and make perfect evaluations and descriptions of the subject from many supportive facts and angles.

Victor Davis Hanson is anything but a mindless Trump fan and the author criticizes the president for his excesses, yet also recognizes his strengths which cause him to be precisely the right man at the right time for many people. You do not have to agree with Trump, his supporters, or his policies, but if you are in any way intellectually curious as to how a non politician could come out of nowhere and defeat both major political parties and Victor Davis Hanson will help you understand.

In the case for Trump, Hanson brings his classic erudition to bear on the political turmoil of Trump election and first two years in office. His references to past presidents, forgotten political postures are carefully presented to put Trump presidency in context.

We follow Victor Davis Hanson and appreciate hearing his valuable insights so had ordered his latest book. About a third of the way and we already highly recommend it, excellent commentary on why Trump ran and how he won and the policies behind the persona, fascinating read.

I notice all the one star reviews were posted the minute this book was released so all the Trump haters were the first to buy this book, quickly read it, and then post their hate filled opinions, fake news. I love the protagonist, the best contributor at National Review and a wonderful professor from CSU Fresno and this book is a very calming read and cuts through the BS constantly blasted on TV.