#42. Daughters of the Lake
#Wendy Webb
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Daughters-Lake-Wendy-Webb/product-reviews/1503901335/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I wanted to like this book, but the writing was weak and it ultimately made the novel unreadable, too many cliches to note and I gave up after reading eighty percent. The author needs to work on showing rather than telling, rather than telling us that the main character had a probationary period at a new job and then explaining that the practice is customary, he should try trusting that the reader has worked and is well acquainted with the practice.

I liked the idea outlined in this novel and the beginning was promising that a mysterious woman found in a lake, a connection between past and present, a hint of spirit world, but then it all became overdone. Kate dreams become that much more vivid and how convenient and she is attached by ghosts and her cousin Simon is a walking cliche and absolutely unnecessary. In fact, I thought the story might gain a lot if Kate found herself alone in that big old scary house and the romance subplot was also just too cliche. I nearly did not finish the book because I understood the twist about half way through the book, all in all, I would not recommend it.

This was a freebie and I was excited to read it and I love ghost stories, but I was lost, not grounded, did not quite follow the narrative and there was way too much telling, not enough showing. Perhaps another one of this author books will sweep me away, but this one disappointed.

This one seems the most likely to be of interest and supernatural and Gothic caught my attention so I figured I would give it a go. Cloying is the word that most comes to my mind as the adjective that describes this book. The writing is competent, the setting, both historical and contemporary, well rendered but the story itself did not appeal. I will remember to avoid the Gothic genre in the years ahead as it seems to be just another way to describe romance with ghost.

The characters were predictable unless they were being boneheaded silly and the lead apparently is truly stuck in the past, waiting around for someone to save her while she is not really concerned about the whole job or place to live. The protagonist quits her job because her husband and an intern are fooling around and her boss sides with them because she got angry in public, she feels like she is in the wrong, idiot. The protagonist then hangs around her parents home swooning and waiting for a body to wash up on shore and the whole bit about her being a suspect in the murder is silly. That her cousin offers her a job and place to live, but she is reluctant because of some inexplicable reason which is silly.

My rating was not favorable as I found the story a bit difficult to follow, the flashing between the generations was confusing and took away from the story. I found that I had to stop and think. Overall, I enjoyed the story line and am going to try another book by this author. I am hopeful the next story is as good, but less confusing, happy reading.

This was just that sort of story. Full of needless twists and back and forth from present to past, full of ridiculous tense shifts that should have been caught by an editor, along with extraneous words to pad and fill an otherwise flimsy story. The pace of the book was uneven and there were places where the story needed more filling out, but those were glossed over in favor of a too flowery description for something that does not move the story forward.

Overall, I enjoyed the story and sometimes time hoping can become confusing, but I thought it was done well in this book as each shift from time deepened the mystery. What I did not like about the book was the heavy telling and use of passive voice and this story could have been so much more were it not for that. I nearly stopped reading a couple chapters because of this but decided to continue on and I am glad I did as there were some good twists at the end.

I picked this book as a first reads choice, overall, the story was engaging, though I felt it took too long to get started, both in the past and present time lines. I enjoyed the alternating story lines, a trend I love in a novel when handled well, but felt the reader had to wade through too much background in the past before the main characters took center stage. Once they did, the novel really picked up and I am glad I stuck with it until the end where the author delivers a good payoff and a nice wrap, three and half stars.

There is nothing like a good ghost story but this was not it, contrived, predictable, tidy, simplistic, repetitive, too many fillers. The reader is interested in a good story, not what the main character eats, drinks or wears.