#43. I Am Watching You
#Teresa Driscoll
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Am-Watching-You-Teresa-Driscoll/product-reviews/1542046599/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Really disliked this book and the premise showed promise, but I never bought it to the beginning, where we were supposed to believe the protagonist was expected to track down girls she did not know and call their parents to report on their behavior on the train. Ella is quite possibly the most boring character I have ever read and being in her personality was like sinking to the bottom of a very deep pond. The bad guy came out of absolutely no where and was so poorly motivated to go after Luke. What a waste of time reading this mess, who on earth would do that so the rest of the book never made much sense.

I read comments saying this was fast paced, I disagree and I found it slow since it jumps from one character to another but not giving away much. The minute it got interesting she simply jumps to a new character and ninety percent narration, ten percent dialogue, no individuality in her characters, every sounded the same.

I am sucker for missing persons novels but this one is a snore and there are so many better ones that you should really skip this. The premise is actually interesting, would you intervene if you were the witness on the train. Unfortunately the concept was better than the execution and the chapters are very short and we constantly alternate personality between various characters but nothing is really happening. Some characters constantly allude to knowing things but it takes most of the book to come out and it is a lot of build up for very little pay off.

There are very few books that I have not finished and this was a close call and it almost seems to be a novella that has been fluffed and stuffed in order to be made book length. Pacing is slow and while the author tries hard to provide hints to the mystery, they are clunky and flat. For example, it will hint at a character ambiguous history in one chapter, the next chapter the police discover it but does not reveal it to the reader for a few more chapters. Finally comes the twist at the end and while completely unexpected, the character was more of a footnote in the preceding story and not fleshed out at all to give any satisfaction to the reader.

It was a sad book but I chose only a one star rating because it was extremely dragged out and dull. It took me a couple weeks to finish this book and that is saying a lot because I read a book a day if I can. There was just no spark to keep me from putting this book down, just boring.

This story just droned on and on and on and on and on and that is how I felt listening to the audio book. I took it on a long driving trip. I think the author must fancy herself, with the endless descriptions of the intricacies of flower arranging. After a very long period where the protagonist simply lives in a fog and drags the reader through her depressing fugue state, the protagonist just suddenly wakes up and changes, but there did not seem to be a catalyst. Or maybe there was, but did not notice because my ears were too numb from the endless descriptive scenes that are supposed to give the reader a break from the suspense and action, but really did not do the job because they droned on and on. Anyway, when it ended, I was happier than when the long, tedious drive was over.

I have read three other books since starting this one and I have not given up on this book since everyone is dramatic but it is just too much. I am sure I will finish it some day, but it is an annoying read with the snag at the end of every single chapter. The characters all annoy me and everyone is a suspect, irrelevant details abound, the mysterious watcher that pops up with no growth in the story, the guilt ridden friend, the callous friends, the noisy housewife, the heart broken teen, the abused sister trying to get help from people who do not know how to help.

For a mystery novel, everything depends on the resolution wrapping things up neatly after dropping just enough bread crumbs along the way that the reader feels like they at least might have been able to solve it on their own. The resolution here comes out of let field with next to zero foreshadowing and I even read this a second time to see if perhaps, already knowing the ending, I would pick up on something I had missed. This was an enjoyable read, but the ending killed it in my opinion and I really wanted to like this book, but I have to say it left me feeling cheated.

The concept is really compelling, what would you do in this situation, how would you handle the guilt but as it dives into the lives of literally every character in the book, you find yourself turning the pages, but not in an excited way. About half way through I was not sure I even cared anymore because each character had secrets they were not telling and it just got sort of annoying. You get hooked because you want to learn the secret then when you do, it is often not that big of a deal and you find yourself wondering why it was a secret. I finished it and enjoyed parts of it, but there was a lot of skimming in the middle.

I am still trying to wrap my head around how this book is so highly rated and there is little character development, the plot falls flat, the ending is ridiculous, and there are sub plots that do nothing to support the actual plot. The characters are just there to provide filler, overall, this book is just boring and uninspired.