#45. Improvement: A Novel
#Joan Silber
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Improvement-Novel-Joan-Silber/product-reviews/1640091130/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

I loved reading Improvement and Loved the experience of reading it, because the writing flows so smoothly that I found the actual experience of reading the book a joy. The characters are connected in surprising and unpredictable ways, woven together in stories in different countries. We experience the far reaching effects of decisions and events and I liked the way it felt natural to empathize with characters as they moved through very different worlds. This book is a gem, wonderful storytelling, with much insight and also rich in heart.

This is a stunning book and the author so beautifully weaves multiple characters who are connected by intricate threads. Each of the richly depicted characters is working through their own challenges and seeking their own improvement. The parallels between the characters are subtle in some cases and more overt in others but when the pieces of the puzzle start to come together, you realize how brilliantly executed the story is. I found myself wanting more and more of these characters and deeply invested in their outcomes. This is a fast yet luxurious read and a lovely escape into a beautifully interwoven world of stunning characters.

I started it on the plane and could not put it down until we landed and the author writes a mesmerizing story that seemingly ambles from one well developed character to the other with no apparent rhyme or reason, but trust me, it is there. Almost, but not quite a collection of short stories, it is about a community of people, so connected, their lives are interwoven like the threads of the rug that touches each of their lives, random but real. It is the story of how we are attached to each other, and with every instance that happens in life, it has the capability to unravel our fate, disintegrating our plans, or perhaps change the future forever, memorable, and beautifully written.

In the spirit of the award winning movie Babel, this book, which identifies as a novel, is actually a series of interlocking stories that blend seamlessly one into the other despite shifts in geography and time. Beginning and ending with the story of Reyna, a young single mother with a toddler living in present day Harlem, the episodes range to Turkey in the 70, Germany, the 80, and back again to Manhattan, finishing up with Reyna who finds redemption in an action that ties all the seemingly disparate elements together.

Sometimes small acts have consequences that go beyond our lives or experiences. The author crafts a compelling series of stories and characters that link together over time and across borders. The stories are so well crafted that it struck me only after that each one was in its own way a love story, highly recommended.

This is very much a butterfly flaps it is wings and influences so many futures type of read. As simplistic the title is, it is remarkable how many times it takes place in this book. Even weeks later events in the book will pop into my head on how it was an improvement. The author writes so beautifully about real people who are at important crossroads in their lives, a great read.

Not only were the characters not the usual for a novel, and could have been quite downbeat, the author brought out their generous and optimistic inclinations even as they may err. Also, she took us to new places either far away or close up that we may not know.

The author novel is wonderful and she has a very special way of telling stories that weave different characters lives into a larger fabric. The author also has a gift for depicting the way time passes in a very subtle and compact way. A pleasure to read and I look forward to more from her, a group of friends with varied feelings about each other and their relationships, embark on a journey that will change each of their lives forever. Not for better, not for worse, but in the ordinary ways that emanate from our very individual souls.

The novel weaves together stories from the interconnected lives of several characters and a minor character in one story becomes the focus of the next. A woman living in New York, whose boy friend gets involved in a scheme to make money buying cigarettes down south and selling them up north, interacts with her aunt, who lived in rural Turkey until some German antiquities smugglers inspired her to leave. One of the smugglers gives birth to a daughter who appears in a later story as the customer of a beautician whose boyfriend died in the cigarette scheme that begins the book. The book is filled with the unintended consequences of attempts to improve one lot in life, consequences that ripple through the lives of others. The author is writing is clear, refined, and remarkably solid and her characters are all richly defined and individually quirky. A longer novel might have gone into more depth with characters and situations but what is presented here is quite good.

Why is not this writer better know and more celebrated and sometimes there is no justice when it comes to literary reception. This is a masterful work of fiction, all the more masterful for its almost invisible skill and technique and I did not know much about this novel going in. The book had just seen it on a few best lists and I am glad I did not, because I probably would have decided that the interwoven narratives things was not my cup of tea, but the author had me simply through voice. I could not put it down and was moved by the story, blown away by the storytelling.