#46. The Silent Patient
#Alex Michaelides
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Silent-Patient-Alex-Michaelides/product-reviews/1250301696/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

Alex Michaelides is an author to watch and this is his first novel and it is a humdinger. It is a murder mystery, told from the point of view of a psychotherapist who switches jobs so he can try to help Alicia, the silent patient of the title. Alicia is accused of shooting her husband in the face six years ago and has not spoken since and the psychotherapist tries unsuccessfully to talk to Alicia and then talks to her friends and family. Lots of issues arise during his investigation and the psychotherapist is also dealing with a cheating wife which causes him lots of extra stress. Readers are also given a look into Alicia journal, in which we learn more about her life and background. The book is a fast read, well written, exciting, and offers a surprising ending that is clever and believable, what a wonderful story.

I knew nothing else about it and that served me well as I did not know there was a big surprise twist coming. I was keeping track of each introduced suspect and made note of peculiar details that the author included, as I always subconsciously do when reading a who done it, but I stopped and stared at the wood stove for a full minute with my mouth hanging open when I found out exactly who did done it. Well played and you got me and it will be hard to recommend this book without saying something like you will not believe who did it, but that would be a disservice to the reader. When you are done reading, educated by the author and are looking for some good fiction, give this a go, you are gonna like it.

It is only February how can this be a top read for you for the year and believe me if I could give this book more than five stars I would. To say I am speechlessly blown away would be the understatement of the year and I am genuinely sad that this story has ended and experiencing one heck of a book hangover. To sum it up in one word, this book was phenomenal and crazy, honestly, crazy is not even the word fit to describe it but for now it will do. The psychotherapist is determined to crack the case that is the silent patient Alicia Berenson, but the journey you are taking on is a tumultuous one that feels you with anxiety, paranoia, and even obsession as you ache to know truth with every turn of the page. Once all is revealed, there is a jaw dropping, heart stopping revelation that rocks you to the core. For a debut novel, the author blew it out the water and I can not even imagine how it is possible to top this.

Psychological thrillers are a genre I often enjoy, but lately I have been disappointed in many of the books I have picked up, yet not so with The Silent Patient. This book has everything, great writing, realistic characters, a non stop story line with plenty of twists and turns and a satisfying ending. I highly recommend The Silent Patient for anybody who enjoys a good thriller or who may even just enjoy reading a good story with psychology as its backdrop, definitely a five star book.

I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and it is so nice to read something which is not about serial killers, girls who are held hostage or cops with so many problems in their personal life. I can not wait for the next book by this author, highly recommended.

It is not often that I find a book worthy of a five star review, but The Silent Patient by the author was definitely one of them. The novel captivates from the first page to the last and the short chapters made for a quick, enjoyable read, yet it was a well developed, smart, suspenseful story and why would a loving wife, Alicia Berenson, shoot her husband in the face, killing him, and never utter another word thereafter. A criminal psychotherapist, newly hired by the mental health facility where Alicia is committed, is determined to help her tell her story, highly recommended.

I am not one for lengthy reviews so this will be short and to the point and this is very best book that I have read so far in 2019 and probably one of the best in all of 2018. Superb psychological mystery with excellent characters and exceptional plot, can not wait for his next.

I usually get distracted and leave books unfinished, but this is one that commands your attention until the end. You are probably not even reading this review, for fear of spoilers, and I do not blame you, but if you are reading this and you love twist endings, feel free to stop and just go pick up this book and I look forward to what this new author does next.

This book went by so fast and I am sad it is over and I was enthralled and the character development was fantastic. The feelings involved were intense and I felt so sorry for everyone and I really felt like I was there in the background watching it all play out and I am going to tell everybody about this book.

This book is a thrill to read and this book had a ending that I was unable to predict. This book is a joy to read and I would recommend this book to anyone that loves to be surprised in a good way.