#50. The Naturalist
#Andrew Mayne
#URL https://www.amazon.com/Naturalist-Andrew-Mayne/product-reviews/1477824243/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

One of the best things to come through Amazon Prime and I am so happy I downloaded this one. I started reading it this morning and despite a run for coffee and bagels, finished it this afternoon. If you like Sherlock Holmes or Michael Crichton books you will like the main character and the story, a lot of fun.

One of my few complaints, if you can call it that, is that the suspense is almost too well done. It became intense enough to border on painful, especially in the latter part of the book. I really had to step back and remind myself a couple of times that these awful things were not happening to me. Also, the portrayal of most of the rural police as ignorant, brutal yahoos bordered on stereotyping. Overall, however, this was a wonderful thriller or mystery, particularly strong because of its use of science beyond the usual forensics.

I read this book straight through, and really enjoyed it and I thought I had the mystery solved at around the four mark, but I got fooled. I would totally love to see this book made into a movie, because with the right actors, it could be a fantastic production. I have not read any books by this Author before, and I must say that I was impressed by his ability to keep a reader intrigued.

I am just a handful of chapters in but I am hooked, in fact, I am only stopping so I can write this review to suggest everybody who sees this gives it a shot. The author, Andrew Mayne, has earned my trust from every one of his other novels being fantastic reads, most notably the Jessica Blackwood series. The Naturalist opens with characters who are not the focus of the story, but set a tense and exciting tone for what I expect is to come. I consider Mayne ability to quickly lay the framework for the world and I am about to read as a hallmark of his writing and always look forward to how gripping his stories are right from the start.

Cray is not convinced and because he feels responsible for his former protege, he goes looking for answers. Unfortunately, Cray does not have the best people skills and runs afoul of the local law enforcement conducting the investigation. The author meets interesting locals along the way, a waitress, a retired cop, and teenagers who live on the margins. Through the teenagers, he finds links to other cases where kids living on the fringes of society have gone missing for years. His suspicion that a human culprit is responsible becomes stronger.

I have only one slight criticism of the entire book, the ending felt rushed, as if a deadline forced a chaotic ending. Many loose ends are left dangling and the author clearly intended this ending, but the book would be far better with at least an epilogue to tie up those loose ends and anything past that dramatic final scene would be anticlimactic. I just wanted to know whether the character lived, and if so, how long or difficult the convalescence was, because saving the day in this manner would exact an enormous toll on multiple fronts.

This is a new take on serial killer mystery and I liked the viewpoint and the writing and plot moved well. The slightly detached viewpoint worked well to reflect the persona of the awkward scientist. His detachment and obsession to finding the truth played well into describing why he kept pursuing clues after any normal person would stop. I liked the cleverness in his thinking and the sheer stupidity of his interactions with actual people.

I find nothing in my searches through Mayne background that indicates a scientific background. Yet his reasoning and scientific problem solving is sound and understandable and I wish all science education in novels was as easy to decipher. Regardless of his correctness it all fits together and I also like the author depiction of Crane ineptitude and self doubt and the courage it takes to overcome them. Additionally, every characterization in the novel, as well as the dialogue, is well portrayed, a big plus for Mayne.

The story picked up pace and urgency as it went, making it an effective thriller, but the protagonist is portrayed unevenly, a shaky and uncertain academic fish out of water in the beginning who later, conveniently, reveals himself as a former paramedic and quickly becomes proficient with a variety of guns and even mentions. And the strangely friendly and capable waitress suddenly becomes his reason to live toward the end of the story, which just did not fit with anything we had learned about him up to them.

How do you combine statistics, science and serial murder in a readable, highly intriguing mystery, done nicely in the Naturalist. The end is a bit of a letdown but fits well, very good book, looking forward to the next one.