#52. Milkman: A Novel
#Anna Burns
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Milkman-Novel-Anna-Burns/product-reviews/1644450003/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

Every now and then the Man Booker judges miss the mark and Man Booker winners share common surrealistic themes, with winners being unique and bleeding edge, something that has not been done before. Sometimes the judges choose art over literature, discounting the literary deficiencies for the artistic vision and creativity and in this case, the judges selected an art installation, literary garbage. But the book is unique with a writing style that has never been tried before and the problem is that there is a reason it has never been tried, because it does not work and it is miserable and nauseating to read and should have never been published.

In short, I found it impossible to actually wade through this novel beyond a third and had to give up on it. I wanted things to move on, for the story to emerge and actually go somewhere, but the inner thoughts of the narrator just went on and on and failed to engage me as a reader. I did not feel any of the characters, and that was not because they did not have real names, but because when they spoke they did so in riddles and pseudo clever waffling, most especially the narrator. I am completely open to non traditional narratives, a big fan of Palahniuk Sedaris but I am sorry to say I can only give this one star.

I should have waited for more reviews before ordering this book, a waste of money for sure. I gave it a good try but was not feeling anything at all for any of the characters and I am glad it is not just me. I am a Baby Boomer and enjoy reading new and upcoming authors, but if anyone asks me about this book I will not hesitate to tell them to pass on this one.

Was so looking forward to reading this story and I am sure the story line would have been very compelling and interesting, however, forcing myself to get through page fifty five, I just could not go on any longer. The author used fifty words when one would have done nicely and it was tedious to say the least and I just could not subject the members of my book club to read this book, very disappointing.

At different times during my read, I decided to stick in the middle, for one thing, it is a very challenging read, with very long paragraphs without breaks for pages and pages, so when I would go back to it after having stopped reading for as little as several hours, I would go back sometimes fours pages so I could remember where I was. The first person narrator is in charge of what there is of dialogue, so remarks of more than one person appear right next to each other. There are times where the writing flows exquisitely, and other times where I had to read passages over again. I read this for my book group and as it happens, we met last night and one member had read an audio book and played a couple of passages for us, and I was astonished at how much more comprehensible it was and the humor really sang out and I would recommend reading that way.

Not sure what the Man jury was thinking and this book is pointless and not worth the prize and certainly not worth the time. There is a literary gimmick of not naming any place or any person but outside of that, it is just a rather rambling narrative about a young woman with a paramilitary stalker. I found this book rather a bore and take away the gimmick and there is really nothing there at all.

The way this book is written has excited interest and I assume contributed, vouchsafed, ensured and even resulted in its award. The story is interesting but I found it a struggle to read because each paragraph goes on for pages and chapters seem never ending, endless and with frequent diversions. This is a book to pick up and read when you have time, not one that you can pick up when you have a spare minute or two, unless you are willing to stop mid paragraph.

I purchased this book because it was a Manbooker winner and it is gotta be good, right, but abandoned it out of boredom after thirty or so pages. I had no idea where the whole thing was going and I vowed long ago never to just plow through a book if it does not capture me in the first fifty or so pages. The prose to me was turgid with long unbroken paragraphs not my favorite, and a confusing plot and life is too short and there are other wonderful books out there.

I know this was a Mann Booker prize winner, and I really tried to like and it was highly recommended by a friend who is an avid reader, but I just could not get into it. I found the run on sentences and repetition of phrases so difficult to keep reading that I eventually gave up. If I had to read almost boyfriend and people across another time I was going to throw the book out the window, so, definitely not my cup of tea.

I was seventy pages into this book before I figured out it is about Belfast and I thought it was a dystopian novel about a bleak future. The complete lack of paragraphs made this extremely difficult for me to read and I just do not see how that added to the book other than to torture anyone persistent enough to keep with it. I was also confused by a complete flip in the tone near the end, from dreary to ridiculous, but confess, that by then I really needed the comic relief because I could not stand another page of hopelessness. While there are probably reasonable explanations for the vagueness about time and place, and not give the characters names, and maybe even for not using paragraphs, these things all seemed to detract from an otherwise compelling tale and dimensional main character.