#54. Brave New World
#Aldous Huxley
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Brave-New-World/dp/B0012QED5Y/ref=tmm_aud_title_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=

Do not bother with the Kindle version and specifically the one with the picture of the eggs and blood. There is a kindle version that is the correct text with the title in red banner listed for more than ten dollar, but the eggs and blood version is completely different, simplified, dumb down version of the physical book. The paperback format as pictured on the product page is what I have for my physical copy and they are vastly different. I read the kindle version while at work on my computer during slow periods and then came home and attempted to read the book version where I left off, only to find that chapters did not line up. There were entire pages of conversation missing towards the end of the book between Mustapha Mond and John, the Savage, very upsetting to learn this for the entire pages. It should not be on the same product page listed as a kindle version and this book is a completely different version.

I bought the Kindle edition at cheaper price and it is not the actual, original version, the one with eggs on the cover. It is a watered down, summary of sorts of the actual book and it basically takes the original version, changes the prose and wording to make it more readable and understandable in more modern language, I suppose. If that is what you are looking for, then I recommend this edition but if you are looking for the original, you will need to spend a little more money to download the original with the man on the front cover. Maybe I missed some kind of disclosure but I do not remember seeing anything saying this was a different version. Even though I am only out one dollar and some change, it is still kind of disappointing that I wasted it on a book that is seemingly advertised as the original. If they will sell a book that is not the original for cheaper price, I wonder if they will try to sell one that is not the original for ten or fifteen dollar. If you did not know what you are looking for and did not know this was not the original, you would just think you got a heck of a deal on a classic when, in reality, you were ripped off. I do not typically give bad reviews and this review does not reflect the content of Brave New World but rather that of the actual sale and his particular version of the book. You can see on the pictures I have attached the differences in the wording from the original to the version I purchased.

A classic, but hardly timeless. The author imagined future for humanity has a cartoon elaborate, personnel intensive system for biological engineering and conditioning, but also pencils and clipboards, telephones, and elevator operators, flying cars but with human pilots. Elements of his imagination are intriguing, like the synthetic music and soulless art, but overall, it lacks prescience. And the combination of Ford worship with mood altering drugs and free love is just bizarre.

Make no mistake, the story is superb, however, it was difficult to enjoy the book in its entirety. As every time I would go to turn the page, I would be made to fight along the tattered edge. The pages of the hardcover copy, along the fore edge of the book, are truly frightful to behold. They remind me of rows of tilled soil, ready for planting and I prefer to thumb through my pages from end, not pulling them in from the top or bottom like some kind of madman, Cheers.

I was really disappointed in this book and Orwell did a much better job and the book was rather monotonous and predictable. I think the difference between 1984 and this book for me was action and 1984 has more descriptive action that contributes to a sense of foreboding. This book tries to do this with dialogue, a lot of dialogue and I grew rather tired of the orations from the characters, probably because Shakespeare is often quoted. I found myself waiting for a twist or closer approximation to today news, but did not see any of these. You could argue the connection between the book and today headlines is the increased focus of pleasure and distraction, but the means to do this in the book is not as closely aligned as it is in 1984. Overall, it is not a bad book and it is just not the mind blowing story I was led to believe.

The satirical Brave New World is widely considered to be one of the greatest novels to emerge from the ether of English Literature, and while it is a fascinating exploration of human values and society, it in my opinion also lacks the narrative flow that transforms an interesting idea or concept into a good story. This book invests the majority of its time in setting up the futuristic utopia and less in inhabiting this setting with likable or even memorable characters. Even the protagonist does not arrive until halfway through the book, and by then it is too late to become emotionally attached.

Actually, this was the most frustrating book to read on my kindle and I did not realize it was a graphic novel, but I like those and would not have minded if it had been more user friendly. You are supposed to be able to click on a frame and make the graphics larger, but it would continually just turn pages forward instead. I gave up pretty quickly and it is just too small to see the frames and I could not follow the story.

I had read somewhere that brave new world is considered one of the top one hundred novels of all time, how could I be anything other than disappointed while reading the actual book. I found the ideas in it profound at times and some I am sure will continue to resonate with me, however the author has little interest in real character development or plot. I found the characters two dimensional for the most part and you could argue that this is exactly what a world like this would produce, people devoid of depth and feeling. However, as a reader, I need interesting and complex characters to compel me to continue reading and I need to care and I often found myself looking at page numbers and wishing I was finished already.

While an important work, and written before Orwell 1984 and Huxley was Orwell mentor or professor or something, the Brave New World pales in comparison to 1984, the way a Star Trek or Doctor Who episode would pale in comparison to an Alan Moore graphic novel. The author is a utopia which deals with the human condition and the engineering of a society via eugenics and behavioral conditioning, all the rage in the thirties. Orwell, however, is a dystopia and asks more challenging questions such as does language make reality or does reality make language and the questions are memories of our own and can they be trusted, and can a government control our innermost thoughts. So a quick summary is that this book is indeed important in not only the science fiction but also the social criticism canons, but this book should be read before reading. Orwell, or you will just think its fluff, and really, it is not fluff, just not as gritty as Orwell.

The book was acquired for a school project for one of my senior high children. Having read the book, Huxley imagines a futuristic world where government controls all aspects of life and moral restraint has been eliminated and hedonistic pursuit is the fashionable existence. Sexual intimacy no longer exists and is simply a part of recreational activity where consequences are controlled and no one is to feel the weight of their actions. People use a socially acceptable mood altering substance to mask any remorse and the beat goes on and in some aspects, his writing is prophetic of society today.