#56. Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom
#David W. Blight
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1416590323/ref=s9_acsd_al_bw_c_x_3_w?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-4&pf_rd_r=N4WZJBX4JF1QC80W9G3F&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=36c65f93-f322-4319-94c0-dc0769427bf2&pf_rd_i=6960520011

I have not yet read the entire book, but was annoyed at the author liberal snobbery in the introduction. After bringing up some individuals he had seen wearing buttons that proclaimed Frederick Douglas was a republican, he snobbishly dismisses them as some of us scholars with, shall we say, different training and research, smiled and endured. I guess since these people apparently did not attend and an Ivy League school and ingest all of the liberal viewpoints they must be endured by the higher level scholars, disgusting liberal, pseudo intellectual condescending. Why did must cut on people who have arrived at a different opinion than his, as I read further, I will surely be alert for liberal bias sure to come.

The real problem of this book is that it is too long and it should be only two third or half of its original page length before the footnotes. Why, because Douglass early life which the book tells well was an adventure story of the slave who escaped, educated himself, and became a major spokesman for the abolitionist movement. However, thereafter his career fell largely into that of an itinerant orator and a newspaper editor and his speeches and prose were his life. Fine enough, because his words were powerful and they had some impact, however, the author life narrative summarizes speech after speech after speech by Douglass over those decades. And while the narrative evolved over time in the nuances, his main themes remained the same, so in the book extensive rehash of his speeches, one is treated to an endless repetition of the same material, frankly, it becomes boring.

Meanwhile, the obstacles to appreciating this book are consistent and irritating and the author makes much of inconsistencies in Douglass three autobiographies, and when he refers to the differences there is a superior, smirking quality to his prose that does not sit well. I would not like it coming from any writer, but when the writer is a Caucasian, it adds an extra layer of insult. No matter how long Blight publishes, no matter his standing in the Ivy League, he will never be fit to polish Douglass boots. If he once knew it, I suspect he has forgotten it so that is a problem, and it is hard to read around it.

I persevered to page five hundred and twenty and could not take any more and I get it. Frederick spoke a lot and he had a female companion and We do not know if they had sex nor how his wife felt about this, also if his kids were moochers as he spoke.

While I have no doubt that David Blight is a preeminent historian, his writing leaves much to be desired. Ron Chernow is the platinum standard for historians or authors, and Blight is not on the same planet. This book reads like a Psychology undergraduate who had to complete a last minute book report on the autobiographies of Frederick Douglass. Chock full of excerpts from Douglass own writings, with psychological analyses from the author that adds nothing. Maybe Chernow can take a crack at Douglass and do this great man justice and This book is a difficult read, with little to no pay off.

Having a master degree in history, I have had to slog through quite a number of dull books and this one now ranks in my top three. I searched for a reason to give this book at least one more star, but can find none. The author is a well respected historian of the Civil War, but his work tends to be wordy and repetitive. This book is just that, but more so and it is simply a rehash of Douglass three autobiographies with a bit of added research from letters. I am sorry to say that Blight observations are not particularly trenchant or useful in understanding Douglass, and the freedom with which the author employs repetition as a rhetorical device is exhausting. I am glad that I borrowed this from my local library and did not purchase it and it is extremely rare for me to leave a book unfinished, but that is how this will remain. The first twenty five percent has left me stunned and disoriented by overwritten prose, poor similes and metaphors, and useless reiteration. I declare myself defeated. I will read Douglass autobiographies and draw my own conclusions and they can not be as banal as that of the author.

This biography of Douglass is well written stylistically and it is thorough and it will tell you what can be told about him. The writings were political and polemical but largely avoided references to his personal life, except in part in his three autobiographies, and those books were self consciously staged as most autobiographies are and thus cannot be entirely relied upon and also avoided much of his personal life. The author does his best to fill in the blanks, but there are limits to what he can do.

The second problem, not that of this author, and it is inherent in reading about Douglass is that slavery was horrible. Douglass actually had a slightly better life than most of his peers, gaining an education and living in the master house, but it was nevertheless traumatic. It is unavoidable to see what he endured and not reflect on exactly how hellish life was for the four million that endured life in this dehumanizing, degrading system. After I read a certain amount of it, I feel as if I need to take a long shower to wash away the stain.

The other issue, a more common one, is the tendency to guess at what is not known and this makes me crazy. The narrative will flow along in a readable, linear fashion, and then I start seeing the speculation, which is barely visible, might have, must have, likely. This book makes me want to scream and if you do not know this author, either do not put it in, or address the unknown in a separate paragraph explicitly addressing the possibilities. When these inferences are salted randomly into the text, we come away with tangled notions, apart from the key events in his life, which of the finer details were fact, and which were surmise.

This is just a good but not great book and I do not have a religious background or education and do not know much about the Bible so I got lost many times in biblical references given by the author. The author views Douglass as a god like messiah, while Douglass was a great man who I admire more after reading this book, he is not a god or religious leader like his Holiness the Dali Llama or the Pope and Douglass paved the way for President Obama.