#58. The Fire Next Time
#James Baldwin
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Fire-Next-Time-James-Baldwin/dp/067974472X/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_sims?ie=UTF8

I am a huge fan of James Baldwin and this is the third book that I have bought from him and this is by far one of the best books written by him. I am so happy that I chose to buy this book and I do not regret a thing. It truly is astonishing how not much has changed between the races in America since 1963 and the author is such an amazing writer and this book is extremely well written. The use of words in this book are utilized in a way that makes you feel as though you are within the story of Baldwin. Overall, buy this book if you are interested in learning in the history and culture of black individuals during old times. Also, buy this book if you are interested in reading a quality book with quality writing.

This book, The Fire Next Time, is more a brilliant, masterfully constructed Supreme Court Opinion than it is a novel. And whereas I truly loved his analysis and opinions of the Negro problem in America, I still prefer his old fashion, novels with the numerous unforgettable characters, boundary breaking story lines, and sublime and poetic writing style. The Fire Next Time might not be for everyone, but it is, in my opinion, just another wonderful addition and indication of how great a writer and thinker Baldwin truly was and forever will be remembered as such.

As someone who grew up around the world and in the presence of a rainbow of people and cultures and then became a teacher, this book broke my heart while making it whole. I wish in my wildest dreams that this book was mandatory reading for the world and it speaks to more than just for and to the black American community. It speaks to anyone and everyone who is ready to listen and the insights of this author and his anecdotes provide a steady glow in the readers mind to be fanned with deep thinking and self reflection. The author so perfectly captures many of my own thoughts, feelings, and musings and elucidates them in ways I have never been able to. The introductory letter from his uncle is proof that this beautifully gifting writing courses through the veins of the Baldwin family. I wish I could have had the opportunity to meet this incredible man and I love this book and it is actually two shorter pieces quilted together and its perfect.

As readers of my reviews know, I rarely comment on books that are well known classics as this is, however, I wanted to write a few lines about this book. Firstly, it is an important historical document and Baldwin is recording life as he experienced it. I found his description of an evening with Elijah Muhammad endlessly fascinating, as I noted also his comments on Malcolm before he broke with Muhammad. Secondly, there is no denying the power and passion in his prose and I have rarely come across an essay or memoir where the fire lights every page, like it does here. One may argue with some observations and conclusions of the Baldwin and I do think the world has changed somewhat since this book was written. If, for the better, it is with some thanks to writers like Baldwin, but this is a book that still has much to offer a reader.

This book is intense, but so prevalent and important, Bought it for a class, to use as a basis for a critique. This is my first Baldwin book, and I intend to read his others and the author points out so many relevant and truthful aspects of race, oppression, and society. The author addresses intricacies that we may not even think of if we have never experienced them but more importantly, he goes a step further to suggest ways to improve the society, whites, blacks, and everyone as a whole to make it a more just world in which we live.

Excellent book and I love the writing style of Baldwin and this was a very interesting read. The various complexities of the own experience and realities of Baldwin that he talks about in depth are ones that I have grappled with in thought during our present time. His reflections are very thoughtful as he swims deep in topics of black self identity, religion, American white supremacy and His life experiences and thoughts as a black man of his time sadly mirrors those of today, as much as times have changed and as much as they have stayed the same. This book, The Fire Next Time, fuels readers to think deeply about our own present time and to confront the realities of it with raw transparency, no sugar coating added.

This book tells indispensable truths about being black and white in America which many people do not want to hear nor see. It casts a light on the ugliness of the country and how blacks are integral part of the country itself. It is a beautiful thought process written by a beautiful man who sought love to dispense hate. It is self reflective and astounding to read and I would recommend it to absolutely everyone. I have a few pages with highlighted quotes and dog ears because I love the way that how Baldwin used words. Putting emphasis on the fact that we need to stop putting significance or emphasis on color.

This is one of my two favorite books by Baldwin and the other is the Room of Giovanni, and I am neither black, nor male, nor gay. The writing is clear, direct and powerful. Baldwin states home truths on race directly, baldly, and wisely. I think this book should be required college reading in the US, at every college and university, and for people of every race. In addition to his frank, clear, and insightful messages and insights about race relations in America, Baldwin is a first class rhetorician, a natural, and his diction is pitch perfect.

The author cited Baldwin as an inspiration and so I randomly selected one of his books to read. This book was simply amazing and I love his control and execution of both language and story. The only people I could ever see not enjoying this read would be people who are already in denial about race relations in America or deeply religious, so if this is a subject that interest you please pick this book up.

Occasionally we find an author who gracefully and indignantly embodies their culture, their race, their upbringing and at the same time heroically transcends it, thereby offering a fiery expression of what it means to be human in the very highest sense, of what it means to be responsible and loving beyond the artificial trappings, fear laden contraction of societal suffused hood. What burns in Baldwins essay is the deadwood of racism and the rotten fencing unconsciously preserved to keep one safe from the other. When rather it is the love for the other, seeing the persons as the practical means which actually preserves our well being. Baldwin writes of this incendiary process not as an abstraction but as a vivid lode of everyday experience.