#60. Washington Black: A novel
#Esi Edugyan
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Washington-Black-novel-Esi-Edugyan/product-reviews/0525521429/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

You know a book is good if it stays with you a few days after reading it. The author, without being at all obvious about it, leads us through a story that has many levels and explorations of what it means to be captive. Captive to a slave owner, captive to a concept, captive in an exhibit. It looks at what it takes to be truly free. This is my first book by this author and it will not be my last.

This was an interesting and somewhat unconventional take on the effects of slavery on slave and master. For me, the protagonist has extended obsession with his one time master motives that drives the last part of the book rang a bit hollow without denying the character his intelligence and emotional complexity. It seemed like the kind of brooding and psychologizing that belongs to a more modern era, however, the characters and their world are fascinating and well drawn and I found the book very entertaining. My only other complaint, as a hot air and gas balloonist, is that the ballooning described in this book is completely unrealistic and it cast doubt on all the other historical content of the book.

George Washington Black, Wash, for short, is an unlikely world traveler, inquisitive observer of nature, and gifted artist because of his beginnings as a slave on a sugar cane plantation, however, an encounter with Titch, a fellow scientist and traveler, changes the direction of the fate of Washington. As a compelling narrative, Washington Black is the kind of novel that makes me want to go back and reread it as soon as I finished. Themes of pain and suffering, we both experience and inflict resound through the story. Often bitter and horrific, the story nonetheless is hopeful and even darkly comic at times and this is a truly unique read.

Stepping into this novel is like stepping into the life of a young negro slave in old Barbados. Faith sugar cane Plantation is ruled by Erasmus, a hard, evil master, but the young slave, Washington known as Wash, has an unknown talent discovered by the brother of Erasmus, Christopher known as Titch. Christopher, who is as kind as his brother is harsh, takes young Wash under his wing to help him construct a contraption known as a Cloud Cutter which can be set aloft by the wind. Titch and Wash embark on a series of death defying adventures, but mostly, they are dangerous for Wash who upon his escape from the island with Titch is sought dead or alive by Erasmus. Over the course of years as Wash becomes an adult, we readers embark on a voyage filled with pathos, joy and heartbreak. This is a beautifully crafted novel. I highly recommend it for those who love history and dynamic storytelling.

Born into slavery in Barbados, George Washington Black literally escapes the plantation in a hot air balloon, but that is only the first adventure in this sweeping story of a life. He finds himself in the Arctic, Nova Scotia, Great Britain and Morocco before the tale ends. His narration offers insight into being a slave, then being dependent, and finally finding himself whole. The writing is excellent and the narration is engaging and the insight into being born black is a must read for white people.

I enjoyed reading Washington Black and traveling with the protagonist provided just enough suspense, sadness and loneliness. As a reader, I maintained a feeling of hope for Washington Black and the author did an incredible job of historic storytelling. There are many surprises in this book, however, the concluding portion seemed a bit excessive, needlessly maze like in its unfolding of missing pieces, nevertheless, I look forward to reading more of work from this author.

The book begins with Washington, called Wash, as a child slave on a sugar plantation in Barbados, and ends with him as a young man confronting. After a search of many years, Titch, the aristocratic young Englishman took him away from the plantation. He also cared for him during the many adventures and they share as they travel the world. He also encouraged him to pursue his talent in drawing, and then unexpectedly and abruptly deserted him. This is a picaresque novel that is also a meditation on love, loss, friendship, kindness and cruelty, the book is beautifully written, highly recommended.

Death was a door and I think that is what the author wished me to understand and they were happy as they were free. Watching them go, I thought they looked very much how Titch and I must appear together, two awkward forms pouring through the darkened fields like shadows. Everything is bizarre, and everything has value and the rags were like the radiance of some terrible star, bright and emanating from something already extinct. Luck is its own kind of manacle and there are several kinds of happiness said by Wash. Sometimes it is not for us to choose, or even understand, the one granted us.

This book was a pleasure to read as the story is so well written, even though it was difficult to read, to read graphic descriptions of how slaves were treated and thought of. George Washington Black is a young slave on a seventeenth century sugar cane plantation who is taken out of his slave life by the brother of the man running the plantation. George is chosen because he would be good ballast, the proper weight for his flying machine which is a hot air balloon. This man character, Christopher, has a great interest in science, nature which never amounts to anything and schools Wash to be his assistant. To his surprise, Wash is very intelligent, a fast learner and a very good artist, so their relationship begins. The middle of the story has them fleeing Barbados to avoid Wash being implicated in a crime. What an amazing journey Wash embarks upon with Christopher, whom he looks upon as his friend, and forms a deep bond with him. I do not want to comment overmuch on what happens because I would give away too many spoilers and you should read this book. I would say it is a journey for Wash to try to understand what feelings Christopher were towards him and their relationship. Wash has some remarkable insights and this was a moving story, I really felt for Wash.

I will not give away too much more than the following and the novel is beautiful in all its twists and turns, believable in its capture of mid nineteenth century life, the complications of race and slavery, good intentions complicated by the lack of equality in the eyes of the do good, and so on. Wash and Titch make an unlikely pair, and this is in some ways an unlikely adventure novel, but it goes deeper than that. One of my favorite authors often writes fiction that defies categorization, and this author does so here and this seems like a novel where you can tell where it is going. The surprise and ultimate reward of this novel is how it upsets some of that, while also confirming that certain things will come up or be dealt with. This is a book for our times, and timeless all the same.