#62. The Bone Mother
#David Demchuk
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Bone-Mother-David-Demchuk/product-reviews/1771484217/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

An excellent read, and beautifully crafted and the creepy quotient will delight lovers of the genre. The matter of fact, workaday language used to describe harrowing details only serves to ratchet up the horror. Do not read this book alone at night and some of nightmarish characters will follow you around long after you have put the book down.

I do not leave many reviews, but I read a lot of books and the book is one of the most original and captivating books I have read in years. This book has bursts of vivid imagery, macabre horrors, and addicting prose. More akin to short fiction tied together by a thin string than an actual novel, it should not be missed by fans of horror in the vein of Neil Gaiman.

The only quibble I had was the lack of an overall plot line, while the blurb on the back of the book makes mention of one, I could not recognize one while reading the book. Yes, a handful of the stories make mention of the Night Police but it only in passing and without great detail. Who are the Night Police and what do they want with these people, where are they from, who do they answer to, answering, or at least expounding on the ideas surrounding the Night Police would have greatly helped, in my opinion. Overall, I enjoyed this book, while it is not for the faint of heart, readers who like a good campfire tale will likely enjoy this book. I cannot recommend to every reader, but I can recommend it to most. I hope to see more from the author in the future as he shows a great deal of promise.

While I liked the interconnected structure, I felt that the world of the stories could have been explored more. The stories are so short, most of them just a couple pages, that I never really felt attached to any of the people or their specific narrative. But at the same time, each story did not seem to further the world building enough that I felt I had a full picture of this place, the timeline between characters, or the events that happened there by the time I finished the book. Though the writing is captivating and there are some truly scary moments, I felt this narrative was just too scattered for me to really connect to it, which would have been fine if it were just a short story collection. But as they are meant to be linked, it left me wanting more cohesion and finality. I would definitely be interested to read more writing by this author. The author has a strong and unique voice, and I love that he decided to shine a light on Russian folklore and history in this way.

That is the mark of a good horror book and some of the stories, especially towards the end, were so shocking. I would reread portions of it because I could not believe what I actually just read and too my surprise and horror. The story said exactly what I thought it said and David Demchuk has a wonderful way of storytelling. It feels so real, like these stories are factual accounts of real events as the narrator experienced them really. It is really effective way to freak me out and I will tell you what. I highly and very highly recommend this book to all my friends who love to feel unsettled and terrified at night, the perfect Autumn read and Get it.

This is a beautiful and hauntingly written novel of David Demchuk and this book is told in a series of monologues by the inhabitants of an Eastern European town on the cusp on World War II, as well as their descendants in the modern day. But these are no ordinary characters, many of them are supernatural beings, creatures out of folklore who live there in relative peace and prosperity, sheltered from the outside world and working at the local thimble factory. Think the spoon river anthology of Edgar Lee Masters meets the Cabal of Clive Barker, but as World War II breaks out across Europe, a special force known as the Night Police comes for the residents of the town, persecuting them, rounding them up, and killing them. It put me in mind of the treatment of the Jews and other so called undesirables by the Nazis, and I am sure that is no accident. The writing of Demchuk is exquisite, as one might expect from an award winning playwright, and his imagination seems boundless. This book is a deeply powerful and touching novel that will leave you forever changed.

This instantly became one of my favourite books of the year and I would call The Bone Mother delightful, except it was a little too terrifying for that. Picture if you will a collection of fairy tales, the old kind which is dark and twisted, only what if they are not fantastical stories but family histories. Maybe it is concerning the history of your family and the author delves into Eastern European folk traditions and builds something completely original. Told as a collection of individual stories resembling fairy tales, they never quite came together as a cohesive novel. Although perhaps that was for the best as the end result resembled an image of a secret world told to you in your dreams, fragmented and hazy but touching upon something deep and I can not urge people enough to read this one.

If we had taken time to sit at our the feet of grandmother or listened to the old men around the fire, these are the stories we might have heard. They are most certainly the stories that come from those events after being handed down through a couple of generations. Oppressed people do not tell tales of blithe fairies tripping through emerald forests, instead they tell of the monsters who hold them captive and devour them piece by piece. This is a collection of those stories along with photos that will creep under your eyelids and stay there for longer than you wish. I loved this collection not just for its darkness but also because the author has crafted it so well that it feels like one continuous story. Each new voice continues or verifies the last one. It is about power, greed, and evil but also about courage and family and sacrifice. Our great grandchildren might be hearing the same kinds of stories and wondering how much courage it took to live in this time and place.

The Bone Mother was very enjoyable and dark folklore stories set in Eastern European villages and these are actually a bunch of little stories that come together to make a bigger story. I chose to read it as a novel and it seemed to work well and each little story begins with an illustration. What I liked about the illustrations was they set the foundation for the often creepy story. These stories took the illustrations where I thought Miss Peregrines was going to go but did not, like I said, these stories are dark so be prepared.

At the outset this book seems to be a collection of unrelated short stories, each a uniquely unsettling and otherworldly combination of horror and folklore, but it soon becomes apparent that they are all in fact related. The supernatural creatures that are the subject of these tales, some easily recognizable from Slavic folklore and others entirely new, each come from one of a trio of neighboring villages fighting for survival on the border of Ukraine and Romania. This book contains stories of their struggle to survive eradication, to assimilate into modern society or face down their persecutors. It also tells the stories of the humans who live alongside them or subject to them, the faithful, the facilitators, and the prey. Some of these tales are ghostly and haunting, others are brutal and thoroughly disturbing. While I enjoyed some more than others, particularly stories that featured LGBTQ characters, I love how they collectively paint a picture of an entire pocket of fictional folklore urgently telling its tales as the shadows of genocide and war loom large.