#64. The Outsider: A Novel
#Stephen King
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Outsider-Novel-Stephen-King/product-reviews/1501180983/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

As usual the book started off with a bang and sets up well and it seems to be written more in the Bill Hodges trilogy style, solving a crime and more mature heroes to reflect the age of the King. In fact a character from that series shows up midway through the story, and a lot of cross references or cross marketing occurs. The ending was a bit of a let down, following the familiar path of setting up a final confrontation between the monster and the heroes. This time it was lacking in detail, and I am not sure the origin of the monster and motivations were as clearly defined as in It, for instance. And it uses the exact same weapon as another recent King story to kill the monster and I found the last sixty pages to be more of a predictable letdown. Overall not disappointed that I purchased, but will not be one I would recommend or ever read again.

I have given this book two stars, because it is well written, but the story itself was not at all gripping or scary to me. I have to be honest, the book did not feel like it was even written by Stephen King. It certainly had themes that King often employs, but they were not as in your face as in his other books, such as his struggle with alcoholism, which is mentioned in passing. There is a shock value to the crimes, but that is quickly overshadowed by trying to figure out what is actually going on. So I will say read this if you have nothing better in your read list right now, otherwise, I was very much disappointed with all the hype.

I ordered The Outsider and had hopes it would turn out to be a great read from King, but it just did not turn out that way. It is not a bad novel, such as The Cell, but it also does not stand out like The Shinning, The Green Mile, or any of the many Stephen King greats. It is also well written, which you kind of expect from King. Its main downfall is it is so derivative that if he was sourcing off another author it would come close to being called plagiarism. Elements from The Stand, The Shinning, are pretty evident and I would also include The Green Mile. The source of evil was pretty lame when compared to previous horrors and the ending was not memorable and I was glad to see the book finished. Maybe I am too hard on King and If this had been written by a new author I probably would have thought this might be someone to keep an eye on in the future. But it is King, so all I can do is lament that while its better than some of his work and it is ranking is far below his best.

I got the book and, for some reason, it did not grab me like the other books of Stephen King. Now sometimes I have trouble getting a clean download because other people have had access to my kindles. So, I am the real purchaser and I did not send a copy to anyone, and especially not a Lee Simpson of Wilmar. That is my daughter boyfriend and I see and I am confused and I think I will download a clean copy and see if I can not get the real Stephen King book. I know his other detective book was good and it says a return to his genre to me and I want to read this before Thanksgiving. Someone was reading it to me and it just did not sound right, maybe it was his accent, sounded like a really odd UK accent. Anyway, I will download and post and I did not order this from Simon and Shuster, I ordered from Amazon and I prefer their device, apps, and cloud reader, just saying.

I am Stephen King fan and have been scared by vampires, a haunted hotel, clowns, Carrie, the demented woman in Misery, and even Cujo, so I eagerly got this new book. This is a weak three stars and if the reader did not read the Mister Mercedes trilogy, some of the characters in this book might be lost in some of the story line. The book starts fast and King fashion and something awful has happened the the town, a horrific murder told in gruesome detail. And an arrest is made quickly, a beloved baseball coach and case closed but is it. And in King style, things that seem one way are never like that, in another town in another state, a similar murder has happened, but how can they be connected. Is there an outsider and who is it, is this some supernatural being, something like a vampire or undead, or a really evil person, this was entertaining for sure, but I thought the book was almost one hundred pages too long. As sort of spoiler, you never quite get what The Outsider is, for me, it was not quite vintage, page turning Stephen King.

This one was just okay in my opinion and It started out great and I was somehow thinking that King had ventured into the realm of a legal thriller. The story took a ninety degree turn about a third of the way in though, deep into typical SK Turf. This would not normally be a bad thing, but I was not really a fan of the characters this novel pulled from past novels the first time they were featured. From this point on I was just waiting for it to be finished, will this stop me from buying future SK novels. No, but I may read the reviews first and even if these same characters come back I might buy the new novel anyway.

King changes things up with a quasi criminal procedural set in a fictional town in Oklahoma and the procedural portions were weak and boring. I never really connected with the characters because they were two dimensional and not very interesting. The supernatural premise of the book also fell flat and was not at all scary and the demise of the bad guy was anticlimactic. I really felt that someone else wrote this book and it had none of the hallmark King elements. This year I have reread Carrie, Firestarter, Cujo, Pet Semetary, Dead Zone, Christine, and The Green Mile, all of these early King works draw you in and you feel connected to the story. You can not put it down or can not wait to get back to it and it is a hard feeling to describe but I know I did not get it with this book, it was just boring.

I am not sure how I feel about this novel and if it were another writer besides Stephen King, I would just give it a four and review it and let it go, however, since it is the King, I must admit that I am disappointed in this book. Fair warning dear reader, it is tied to the Mercedes novels in that Holly appears as a major character in the second half of the book. This is part of what disappointed me for I did not think that the King was at his best when writing those books, so while I enjoyed the book and the premise was good, it harkened me back to another similar scenario in another book. There was a lot of talking and I wanted more action since there were no tongue in cheeky comments and asides which I heartily miss. If I had not paid full price for the book and had known its connection to the Mercedes novel, I might not have even finished it. Stephen King has long been one of my favorite authors, and it hurts to give him such a lousy review.

I have adored the knack of Stephen King for luring the reader in, however, The Outsider falls very short. This book lures the reader with overdone character introductions, intermingled with the talk of the possibility that the deeds done were conducted by something supernatural, all the while seeming to assume that the reader is unable to connect subtleties. The concept for this book was a fascinating idea, but it never came to a point where it was not just drawn out ramblings of someone trying to make the story work. I kept reading though and I did and I kept waiting for the peak, for the the classic investigation of King of what we all consider, but do not talk about and that never came. I hate having to write such a review about a Stephen King book, as I am a huge fan, but this book just fell very short of what I have read of his in the past.

This is one of those parables that points its finger at you people who do not believe that mostly speaks to frustrated religious folks, conspiracy theorists, or kids who feel adults have lost the value of imagination. I have a hard time seeing King being motivated by the first two and the book does not feel like the latter, so I am left wondering what this is an allegory for. The book is engaging and I dug the left turn it takes about a third of the way through, but especially considering how self righteous the tone gets. I am curious what prompted this story line and I was not a fan of the Holly character introduced in the second half.