#66. CIRCE
#Madeline Miller
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/CIRCE-Madeline-Miller/product-reviews/0316556343/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

It is not like the book or author are in dire need of recognition since I believe many publications have already praised both and the best I can say is believe the hype. While I am no expert in classical studies, I know the history and myths fairly well and the author is just brilliant in weaving together various myths by following the tale of a relatively minor goddess and character in Greek mythology, well, after this book, Circe is a minor character no longer. I do get the sense that this book is the updated modern day take on the heroine, starting out as a Goddess and by choice, becoming mortal, while Odysseus is reimagined as the modern day hero, addicted to war much like the character in The Hurt Locker, and with more PTSD than he is willing to let on. But forget about psychological interpretations, the point is that this is a damn good story, peopled with vivid and expertly reimagined mythical characters, if you remotely love mythology, you will love this book.

It is to the credit of Miller that most of the people and events in the book, including ones I would never heard of, in fact do appear in the mythology, though not necessarily all together in the same story and they were there in Wikipedia when I looked them up. It is equally to her credit that the ones that do not appear or are only hinted at, which occur mostly near the end of her book, seem just as right and convincing as the genuine ones. Although woven together from a few main myths and a number of bits and pieces, her version of the life of Circe hangs together wonderfully. The writing is also gorgeous, the thinking wise, and the characters moving and I have not read anything this good in quite a while and I was pleased to see over and over that this book has been a New York Times best seller. That means that a lot of other people have also discovered how meaningful these ancient stories can still be, when they are retold by as talented an author as Madeline Miller.

This is the best book that I have read in about fifteen years and it is creative, intellectually stimulating, well written, vivid, and engaging and I really enjoyed considering the events of the Odyssey through a female viewpoint. Exploration of what it might have been like to live as a Greek goddess was quite intriguing and the book also explores existential themes associated with mortality, and consideration of guilt, repentance, and the effects that our choices, good and bad, have on those around us. I feel so strongly about this book that this is the first book review I have ever posted on Amazon, after reading this, I went back and read this earlier book of the author, Achilles. I did not find it to be as gripping as Circe and it may be because I enjoyed the female perspective so much in Circe and I can not recommend this book highly enough.

I loved Song of Achilles and was excited for this book and about half way through Circe, I read a bunch of the one star reviews and I understand where those reviewers are coming from and appreciate their points of view. Circe is a very different character from Achilles but I grew fond of her and enjoyed her unique story and the references to events in the other book. I learned a lot about the character and behavior of Gods that I did not find in her first book and while this story may be somewhat less epic, it is no less entertaining and interesting. Circe is a different story with a different kind of pacing and the way Miller describes Achilles, it is hard not to idolize him and Patroclus was endearing and I wish Miller could find a way to resurrect him somehow though she probably should not. It only makes sense though that the protagonist of her second novel be a very different character and my only dilemma with Miller is that though I know it takes an extraordinary amount of time, effort and work to produce books of this quality, I am really looking forward to her next books. Miller, if you are reading this, please do not take any negative comments to heart and both of your books are perfect and please get started on the next ones, thank you.

The lush, evocative prose of Miller is on full display here, as well as her ability to invoke sympathy for her characters and many of the critical reviews have valid points, mainly that this is not The Song of Achilles and will not break your heart, however, I found the approach of Miller, slow and drawn out, soothing and a comfortable read. The action felt somewhat muddled and the parts that should have been exciting did not have the emotional heft I was expecting and battles against Scylla and the first act of Circe of changing piggish mannered men into real pigs. However, the characterization is spot on and the depiction of Miller of her characters, both major and minor, will sadden you several times over. Many readers who are not satisfied with Circe seem to fall back, if it is a series and there are character or continuity issues, then this may have some validity. Otherwise, it seems best to divorce oneself from the feeling for the previous work and judge the new work on its own merits. I enjoyed Circe and highly recommend it to both lovers of mythology and casual readers and the characters at the end of the book should help newbies get up to speed and provide a little insight for those more knowledgeable.

Without a doubt, one of the best books I have read this year and vivid characters, deeply flawed but ultimately human, even when they are Gods, descriptions that bring the scenery to life, and well nuanced relationships make this book impossible to put down. Time and time again I was struck by how deeply she knew her characters, how well she knew how they would react, how thoughtfully she portrayed every fear, every hope, and every plot they had conceived. I had read and loved her previous book, The Song of Achilles, but Circe is a true masterpiece and Miller is more than a very gifted writer, although she certainly is that. The author is someone who can imagine, and make manifest an entire world, peopled with characters and backgrounds that sing to you, long after you are done reading the book. I finished this book in less than one day while all else was ignored, read this, and let your imagination soar with hers.

If you are familiar with Greek mythology, chances are high that you know who Circe is, shape shifter, seductress, powerful witch and legendary schemer, but Miller gives us a front row seat to some of the oldest tales in the Greek pantheon, with Circe being the daughter of a social climbing nymph and her father the god of the sun, Helios. I loved this book and I felt as if Circe herself was sitting across from me, setting the record straight for me. I also really liked that this book has an index, with all of the gods, nymphs, demigods, and humans, it was absolutely essential. I knew the majority of the characters, but some I had not yet heard of and I felt like Circe was a familiar friend to me and I also enjoyed the large cast that surrounded Circe, particularly at the beginning of the book. The pacing was breakneck, and I was immediately transfixed, my goodness, that ending and it was so bittersweet for me, but I have to say that I enjoyed every moment, and I am so very happy that I bought it for my own collection. Madeline Miller has an immense, complex talent that I absolutely adore, and I will probably read everything in her body of work and I am in awe of her talent and sheer power with words. The bottom line is that raw, gorgeous, searing and thought provoking, I loved Circe and it is one of my favorite books I have read. An absolute epic worthy of Homer himself, Circe has won my heart and I will never forget her, next on deck will be The Secret of Clouds by Alyson Richman.

This book was stunningly good and it is not usual to find a book told from a woman point of view as this one is. Her thoughts, her feelings, her time, are so compellingly expressed and the reader is drawn in and is there. The prose is lyrical, detailed, specific to the time and place that is created, with imagery that is compellingly beautiful. I read Song of Achilles, after I read this book and Song of Achilles is also an incredible book, but this one is even better, as the author honed her craft even more deeply than she presented in Song of Achilles. It was very difficult to put down, and I swallowed it whole and I have not been so drawn into the world created by a book in a very long time. This is one of the best books I have ever read, and I have read a lot of books, as I was reading before I started school at the age of four, as they said around me, we have to put her in school, she is already reading. The book that drew me in in my childhood were by Burroughs, Heinlein, Asimov, Bradbury, but this one is not just imaginative as those were, the lyricism of the writing and the compelling story told were just breathtaking.

I really enjoyed this story and so many characters I have heard many times but did not know too much of their stories. Circe is the daughter of the Titan god Helios, the god of the sun and she grew up in his golden halls but her story is not a happy one. The author is fascinating in that as a goddess she finds comfort when she is with mortals and her encounter with Odysseus defines the many stories that have been told about Circe. The author discovers her powers of witchcraft which angers the mighty god and Zeus leaving her banished and her family turning their backs on her, not that they expressed much love to begin with, but her banishment if far from boring and the events that unfold had me not wanting to put the book down. She is complex, and unlike so many of the gods and goddesses she can be kind and loving as well as flawed, but never underestimate her power and will. I have not read The Song of Achilles of Madeline Miller, but I will be reading it for sure now that I have enjoyed Circe so much.

Because of all the Greek names and so many gods, nymphs, I was very happy that I purchased the hardcover version which made it easier, at least in the beginning of the story, to keep track. There are a lot of characters at the beginning to set the stage for the story of Circe who is the daughter of Helios the sun god and Perse and who is a huge disappointment to everyone in the palace, especially her father. The author interacted with many characters familiar from Greek mythology and some of her actions caused her banishment to an island by her father and she took a while to find herself and become a self taught witch. I love mythology, especially Greek mythology and the telling of the tale from Circe perspective which is very interesting. Circe is able to turn people into whatever their base nature is and she turns her sister into Scylla, the monster with many heads who eats men and men into pigs, including those of Odysseus. Though she is a minor character in the Odyssey, she is fully fleshed out here and worthy of respect and I could not put the book down and highly recommend it.