#67. Dune
#Frank Herbert
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Dune-Frank-Herbert/product-reviews/0441172717/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

One of my biggest complaints is reliance of Herbert on jargon in the novel and he has got some made up word in practically every paragraph and it is often difficult to ever figure out what he is talking about from context. Luckily, there is an extensive glossary, but it really takes you out of the novel if you find yourself flipping back and forth all the time and in the Kindle version, it is just plain annoying to go back and forth. I really like it when authors use some local words in their works and it helps pull you into the world and authors like Tolkien and countless others have done it to great effect. Just look at the amount of people out there who try to learn elvish, or Klingon, but Herbert seems to delight in popping these words in, with very little or no explanation as to what they mean, or why on earth you should care. They come across as awkward and contrived, and not only do not add to the story, they completely detract from it and they do not explain anything, do not add to the cultural feeling and just get in the way.

That said, things finally picked up, in my copy, I realized it was on final page in my copy and things are moving along, a climactic battle is in the works and it happens between the chapters, but did that really happen. That said though, it ends in such a way that does feed consumption of the next book and you want to, have to, know what happens next and it is just not that important for me and it took too long to build interest for me. There were points where I was wondering about the world Herbert built, its possibility in terms of geography and geology and the biology of the place. There were other points where I was analyzing the structural elements of the novel, thinking about narrative voice and scene selection. Not that those are unimportant parts of considering a novel, but if your reader is thinking about them on the first read through, there is something missing, unfortunately, that is hard to pin down.

The frustration that I have is with the concept of prescience of Herbert and I like the overall concept that prescience does not mean that someone like Paul can or will know everything in detail, and that there are blind spots, but does prescience set the future in stone. Herbert frequently implies that, but then pulls back, so Paul sees the coming jihad but wants to avoid it and every time he does something, his internal monologue reflects whether the jihad is still inevitable, but why is it inevitable, that has never made clear. If the future can be changed, then why is Paul trapped, and, if seeing the future essentially locks it in place, how does Paul have the power to lock that future in place for the rest of the universe. The Kwisatz Haderach has the ability to see into the past, present, and future, but how does he have the ability to force a single path on the rest of the universe. This prescience problem becomes increasingly apparent in the sequels Dune Messiah and Children of Dune and I realize that these criticisms make it seem that I dislike Dune, but I do not. I am frustrated because the universe and the story is so intriguing, with great potential, but the treatment feels superficial more often than not.

I first read all the Dune books probably in the late 1970s or early 80s, some of them twice and my recollection was that the final three of six were not very good. I recently acquired the first three, Dune, Dune Messiah and Children of Dune and the first was excellent with five star. The second was not quite as good, four star, and this third one has been a challenge to get through. Much of the first half consists of esoteric philosophical conversations, but the pace has improved in the second half. There is probably no more complex and imaginative world than that created by Frank Herbert on the desert planet Arrakis, and I strongly recommend the first two volumes for any science fiction fan. The third one is probably worth your while if you have never read it, if only to see the direction this story goes in.

This was one of the first novels I loved when I first began reading Science Fiction, though today, I would call it Fantasy, after decades I find it less enthralling and the esoteric segues created less tension than a sense of get on with it and I imagine the fans will be calling for my blood, but themes or tropes that disappointed me now were. Firstly, the boy saviour who saves the world. Secondly, the repeated reference to his mother as old, despite the fact that when the Atriedes landed on Arrakis she was a woman in full bloom, mother of a fifteen year old. After two to three years, she becomes old. The author can not be more than forty and the world building is great, the Bene Gesserit interesting if implausible, but the characters at times seem more like symbols than people.

In a word, there is a reason it was not published when it was written, sometime between 1955 and 1965 and the characters are one dimensional, the unrealistic human interactions make a soap opera look like Shakespeare, and even the protagonist is unlikable. The author never truly suffers and the things that were taken away from him were things he never wanted anyway. By the time he decides to forego his revenge, events have moved beyond his control and the deep philosophical issues that make Herbert so interesting are completely absent in this book. The only redeeming feature is that it is a peek before the concept of a people conditioned by a harsh environment, such as the Fremen, were read back into the story, allowing the fan of Herbert to see how the ideas of the author were shaped and this book is for hard core students of Herbert only.

While this book is a great read, I can not say the same about the kindle version and the formatting needs a revision, first off the chapters start with the first letter of the first word much larger and bold. This is the formatting in the physical version but the letter is placed below the sentence making it look very awkward and this is not a deal breaker but the biggest fault is that the the table of contents only contains the the separate books within the novel and leaves out the chapters. This is quite annoying when wanting to find a specific point or when you are used to looking at the bottom of your kindle to figure out how much time it will take you to finish the chapter. I wrote this review mainly to bring light to these issues and hopefully amazon will be able to update the formatting.

I really want to say this book was great, but unfortunately I just can not bring myself to do it and it has attention to detail is beautiful and the way it composes action in battle is superb, but even with that the book is seemingly written with blinders. It spends countless pages hyping up the child of prophecy, the one who will change the world. Unfortunately though, when that change comes the parts where the book could have shined are no where to be found. I mentioned earlier that the book shines in battle sequences and training and that is all we will and good, but when the time comes to really detail the mental mapping of a war or the conquest of an empire and the book skips it. Progression has always been choppy, chapters end and new ones start weeks, sometimes months apart so it is easy to see how the details get missed, but if I could have read one thing in this book, I wish it could have been Muadib enacting his plan, rather than just setting it up briefly and then cutting to the end scene. I give the story a lot of credit, but feel there were too many missed opportunities to give it anything more than a three star rating.

Since Dune is well known as classic science fiction, I have been meaning to read this book for a long time and I enjoyed reading the book, despite the confusing language, Herbert created a fascinating world with interesting characters. However, the story line itself was predictable and dull, very little surprised me, except the ending, but only because I could not believe I read hundreds of pages for it to end this way. It is not a bad book, so if you are a science fiction fanatic, this is probably worth a read just for what it represents and what it started for other writers, if you are looking for a fun and entertaining science fiction read, look elsewhere.

The book is amazing but if you are looking at this comment then you probably want to know about the build quality and design of the book. The design is wonderful and I love the gold lettering and the back design is very eye catching and simple and whomever designed this deserves a generous pat on the back and the book binding itself feels old. Like it has been read twenty times before which I do not really like and the covers themselves feel flimsy like cheap cardboard. If you are buying this to put on a bookshelf like me then it is worth the money but if you are looking for a solid expensive feeling version of the book to read then you might want to look somewhere else.