#68. The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History
#Elizabeth Kolbert
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Sixth-Extinction-Unnatural-History/product-reviews/1250062187/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

The Sixth Extinction is about an unnatural History by Elizabeth Kolbert grabbed my attention from the first page and Kolbert illustrates the future of extinction by illuminating the history of extinction. The author tells a story of the Earth we inhabit in both scientific and historical terms related to the myriad species of animals that have and do inhabit the Earth. The author travels to myriad places on the Earth to talk to scientists and historians and I felt like she took me along on her journey to places I would never go on my own. The author discussed the effects of natural processes as well as unnatural processes affecting the extinction of species and how those extinctions lead to other extinctions. Her references to previous mass extinctions were always linked to the story of our Earth and present day extinctions and the author talked about frogs, bats, auks, coral, and trees among other things. The Sixth Extinction does not shy away from pointing out how each species is a part of an ecosystem and how all our ecosystems are both independent and interconnected. The Sixth Extinction makes the research of extinction including its causes and effects accessible through great storytelling and relatable moments.

Probably not the main takeaway from the book Kolbert intended, but that is what I learned and in short humans are fantastic at killing things. Sometimes intentionally as in the now numerous extinct bird and large mammal species that disappeared right after humans arrived. Other times because we are great at moving other species and parasites around the globe then there is us destroying habitats to use as farmland. Do not forget the big one, global warming and Kolbert takes on a well written tour of all manor of death in this tale, hopefully our grandchild will be around to forgive us.

If you did not realize it before, you certainly will after reading this book, no matter what humans do, intentionally or not, we accelerate the demise of all types of species from the smallest to the largest. Moreover, we have done so ever since our Neanderthal ancestors trod the earth, and then in the supreme bit of irony, modern humans did it to the Neanderthals. The examination of select species and the personal stories of people studying them makes for an interesting read. I feel the book ended rather abruptly and could have included a more thorough examination of where we can or should go from here. As it is, the book slapped me into ecological consciousness but then did not show me what I needed to do now that I am awake.

Having grown up on a farm, it was taught to us early on not to smoke in the barn and it contained the animals that we depended upon for our existence, but also was filled with highly flammable hay and straw. The book of Kolbert, well researched and well written, tells us that we have already lighted the match and have started a fire in the barn that is our planet. But that we seem to be blissfully sitting in the barn, smoking our cigarette and ignoring the larger fire that surrounds us.

This is a book about the environment and how human activity is directly or indirectly impacting the survival of other species on this planet and eventually even our own. The author in this book travels the world visiting various spots on the globe that are on the front line of what she calls the sixth extinction. The result is an interesting and somewhat depressing travelogue of the state that our planet is in. Unlike what I was expecting this is not a polemical book where the author is making a strong argument for what should be done to stop the extinction, but rather a observation of where the planet is at this point. While the book is a little depressing and the author does state that much of what we are doing is not going to be easily reversed or even can be reversed she does spend a good part of the book talking about efforts to reverse damage done to the environment. Overall I think that this book is worth reading for anyone who is interested in the state of the environment today and the impact that mankind has had on it.

It is no surprise this book won a Pulitzer Prize and Kolbert presents her argument in an objective way, weaving her travels to numerous sites around the world with scientific data that is presented in an approachable way. One of the things I found most compelling are the profiles, both of animals that are extinct and at risk, as well as the scientists of the past and present dedicating themselves to our planet. Some readers may find the bluntness off putting, particularly in the ending where Kolbert pretty much just says this is how it is, but I feel that tactic is much more effective than a straight forward call to action telling people what to do. Kolbert lays out our present situation and the estimates of the scientists about the trajectory of our path, the rest is up to us collectively.

Presents events of the past, hypothesizes on why and how these events occurred based on scientific evidence, and speculates on possible outcomes in the future. We humans along with the rest of the organisms currently living on earth have been shaped by a series of both cataclysmic changes and other more subtle agents of change. The examples cited throughout the book help us paint a picture of probable events reaching back to through five major extinctions and the strong possibility that we are headed towards a sixth.

I thoroughly enjoyed reading this informative and frankly, a little concerning, book, as the author takes us through the chapters and describes her adventures and what she is learning on each new escapade, the reader starts to understand the underlying issue that is at the heart of this book. We are causing the extinction of species that can never be replaced, for some species, their downfall is entirely at the hands of egocentric humans who showed little regard for other living beings. I would say the information in this book is eye opening, but unfortunately, I have been far too aware of this for awhile, in fact, it often keeps me up at night.

Man is so arrogant, we think we are so smart and we are neither the fastest or the strongest or the largest, just smart enough to kill ourselves off with over population, pollution, nuclear technology and on and on. Five major extinctions occurred on the planet before, the fossil record proves it and read this and you can see the straight line from now to the total extinction of man. And before the naysayers comment, read the book, then make an informed comment and the author does a marvelous job demonstrating what we do know, and what we should, but obviously do not. If we cannot live without killing off other species, we will surely kill ourselves off and man is so smart we use the oceans for a sewer, and a pantry, and the rest of the earth as well, and already many species are disappearing due to greed. If you want a fairly tale book to comfort you this is not it and read this and you will be forced to see real facts that you probably have never thought of, powerful writing Kolbert, I hope you win a prize for this one.

Are we humans in fact in the midst of growing extinct and is it our own doing, and can we do anything to slow it down, in fact, we have been here on this planet for a minuscule fraction of the age of our planet. Major extinctions of most species on earth have happened five times before, and will undeniably happen again. Elizabeth Colbert is a true realist and she backs up her theories with the hard facts and examples we may not choose to hear, written in clear, easy to read the language of the layman. I did not find her writing to be frightening, oppressive or depressing, merely honest and accepting and that is a hard to find perspective these days. This one should be mandatory reading for all those puffed up politicians with blind sided denials, rosy promises, and no context whatsoever and for all the rest of us who vote for them and this puts us all in perspective.