#69. Life of Pi
#Yann Martel
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Life-Pi-Yann-Martel/product-reviews/0156027321/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

The narrator or author sets the bar very high, to present a story that would make a skeptic to change into a believer in God and he seems not to live up to this promise. The story is not boring by any means and in the end the reader, just like one of the characters listening to the story has to make a choice. That is a nice trick, but in itself does not make it a masterpiece of inquiry into human nature and no regrets for having spent time to read it and I do recommend it. The chapter about the island is very different and I am not sure if I understand the metaphor, seems almost like a separate idea inserted into this book instead of giving it a life of its own. It may also be an echo of the jungle in Midnight children and some people complain about cruelty in scenes, yes it is there but it is consistent with the harsh reality faced by the character, definitely should not detract from the book.

The plot was fascinating, the writer kept the story flowing, but the descriptions of each animal being killed in more detail than a TV show being torn apart and eaten while still alive, not just one but over and over throughout the story. If the writer was trying to turn us into Vegetarians, he certainly made a good start and I understand he was against brutality and created an analogy with animals representing humans and humans behaving like animals. I loved the movie, the same exact plot, but they did nor show close ups of what happens when a hyena, tiger or starving human eats his screaming prey alive. Too bad because the search for God in all religions by the boy was beautiful and the miracle of survival was exciting.

All and all I enjoyed Life of Pi, however, it took me a while to get into it, Part one to me was long, and I found it hard to catch my attention and I kept waiting for the real story to start which I think happens in Part Two and I really enjoyed Part Two. Although some parts involving eating and animals made me never want to eat meat again, I found it very intriguing and I could not stop reading it. Martel, the author, has a great way of making something that would seems so boring like being shipwrecked very interesting. Part Two made me question what I would have done if I were in a situation similar to Pi, very unlikely. I am partial to the ending and in some ways, it seems like something I would do, however, overall the ending really upset me. Anyway I would recommend this book and it was very interesting, and after you finish the novel, it stays in your mind for a while, just to all those out there who liked the book, there is a movie coming out.

It takes a long time to get into this book, or at least I thought it did and I was not truly interested in the book until about the two hundreds page. It was a requirement for my children literature course so I had to complete it if I wanted to pass, however, once it got past that dry beginning, I thought it was amazing. The entire plot just came to life and amazed me and I had come to dreading it but after it got to that two hundred mark and I was definitely intrigued. All in all, if you like background knowledge, a lot of it, you will probably not fall asleep during the beginning like I did, if you like action more, try watching the movie and then reading the book.

It was ambiguous in many areas, but I feel the author wrote it that way to provoke discussion, was his intention to present metaphors of life or was his intention to describe the condition on face value. The author leaves this question open for the interpretation of the reader, were there really wild animals or were there people who radiate the characteristics of wild animals. Ultimately I believe the whole purpose of the book was to reinforce that life emanates from a supreme Creator, who decides the destinies of all life. There is no chance, no coincidence, no accidents, no happenstance and we all move through a preordained cycle from birth to death at the pleasure of the Creator.

I still have not seen the movie and I usually read the book before I see a movie based on a book and I am wondering how they made this movie anywhere accurate, surely the animals on the lifeboat would not be real. I almost did not read the second part as the first part was not very interesting to me and it was long and drawn out. The second part of the book was not very believable, but was interesting to read how Pi figured out his problems and solved them. The tiger gave excitement to the story and, also, there was a twist when he was blind for a short time and met another blind person who was also shipwrecked and the island gave an interesting break from the tedious everyday existence Pi was living to survive.

Be prepared for a slow opening, the exposition section of the book is sometimes rather heavy going and concentrates a great deal upon his background and spiritual journey. Once he is on the ship and ultimately on the boat with the tiger, the pace accelerates although it continues to be thoughtful and I liked the book, but I did not find it to be a spiritual book which is generally the way it is promoted. I think the spiritual element is present, but does not necessarily dominate as much as I expected and the descriptions are particularly well written and, at times, almost lyrical and I enjoyed the book, but it would not be my first choice in a novel to read.

I enjoyed the book but I have to admit that I did skim over a lot of pages when the author began describing all the different religions and it was too much. The perspective on things of Pi was greatly influenced by his religious beliefs, but I feel like the process to get through why he believed what he believed was just too long. I skimmed through it and I still understood his religious viewpoint and the story that was told after the sinking of the ship was moving and brilliantly described and the end was interesting and it will make you think about the whole journey again.

Initially I found this to be a charming, well written piece, and was very disappointed in the tons of ongoing, graphic descriptions of horrifying, violence that I thought would never end. I eventually found myself skim reading over those area in an effort to somehow get past the horror and finally move on to the heart of the story. I was sadly disappointed as it just dragged on and on and when I would pick up the book I would find myself dreading the experience. I stuck it out till the end because I valued the authors work, but I was left feeling very disappointed when the adventure was over and I would not do that again.

I delayed reading Life of Pi because I dislike fantasy and particularly dislike books where animal suffering and death are used for heart string pulling and to add cheap emotional depth. I was very pleasantly surprised by the amusing, smart writing, the clear eyed approach to religion, and especially the zoological realism of the animal portrayal. I also admired the realistic description of both physical and psychic pain during the long tribulations, in the end, I thought it was indeed a fantastical adventure, and was not at all inspired. The sense I got was of an uncaring nature and universe, including insurance agents, triumphed over by one admirable individual, so I enjoyed it but it did not really stay with me.