#74. The Sympathizer: A Novel (Pulitzer Prize for Fiction)
#Viet Thanh Nguyen
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Sympathizer-Novel-Pulitzer-Prize-Fiction/product-reviews/0802124941/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_rgt?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=critical&pageNumber=1

I read this book as part of a monthly reading list of my book club and I was disappointed in it, and marvel that it earned a Pulitzer Prize. This book took me back to the Vietnam era and the Boat People era, and that is a time when, in real life as well as in books there were few sympathetic characters. The book includes a send up of Apocalypse Now, another Vietnam era story with no sympathetic characters, so, while this might be true to life in some ways I am sure it is. This book is not a life I am eager to revisit. Normally I do not down rate books, as I have no desire to hurt other authors, but since this one won a Pulitzer, there is vanishingly little chance that my review will hurt the author or the sales of this book. I want to warn readers that this is tough, gritty, disturbing and powerful but not in a good way.

About half of this book is mesmerizing, both in the originality of its plot and its lyrical language. It starts somewhat slowly, but once the main character arrives in California, the story really takes off. Sadly, when the action moves back to Vietnam, both the pace and plot become plodding and the language, still enchanting and can not make up for a story that. In the end, overreaches and never quite delivers on the promise of the first half of the book, but a wonderful effort, well worth the time.

The writing is lyrical with bits of wisdom scattered here and there. The horror and hubris of American involvement in Vietnam and our irresponsible evacuation are something Americans should understand, but these characters are empty and not engaging. Bon loves his family and the General likes military pomp. Our narrator is an empty husk, a mercenary for revolution. There you have it and that is it for character development. And the plot is plodding and I heard this book described as a spy thriller. There is a spy, but he is a boring spy which is probably what most spies are, but it makes for a dull read. I got a third of the way through and very disappointed.

There is no heart, emotion in this novel and the writing itself dose not convey true emotion coming from anyone. However, you the reader inputs emotion to various parts of the story, especially when Bon loses his wife and son as they make a last ditch escape from Saigon and you can also imagine emotion during some of the torture scenes. The author admits in an interview with Maxine Hong Kingston that he was not brought up to show or express emotion and, therefore, finds it difficult to write about emotion and it shows in this book. In addition I find the style of the book too academic and it is not surprising since this is the debut novel. Nathaniel Philbrick would have done a far better job of writing it as a historical novel and it is supposed to be a novel from the perspective of the Vietnamese which I looked forward to if it meant ordinary, villager type Vietnamese, but it does not take that perspective. Instead it is the perspective of Vietnamese military officers, hardly what I am interested in. For anyone interested in a personal perspective of the war, read Dispatches of Michael Herr or The Things They Carried of Tim OBrien, both much better than this one.

Seldom do I have such ambivalent feelings about a book and I enjoyed the first part of the book whole heartedly. The writing surprises and delights and it is often darkly funny which considering the setting, the war in Vietnam, was no small thing. The conflict from the point of view of the narrator is interesting and the book is full of questionable ethical considerations, and I appreciate the mental acrobatics that requires of the reader. My problem is the last part of the story which seems to go nowhere good, and very slowly at that. If only we could have learned what happens to the surviving characters back in the USA, or Vietnam it would have been a great novel.

Frankly, I was not impressed with The Sympathizer, and I am surprised that it won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction. The narrative is slow to develop and, in fact, very little happens in the novel. The narrative voice is wordy, making reading a chore more than a pleasure. The bright moment in the novel has to do with the protagonist role in producing an American made Vietnam war film. There is clever satire in this section of the novel. Alas, the climax of the novel is rather anti climactic. I do not recommend this novel, for a better work of fiction that treats postwar Vietnam, read Paradise of the Blind by Duong Thu Huong. It is much better written and tells a much stronger tale.

Not sure how this won the Pulitzer and the award team must like tedious verbiage similar to The Goldfinch, the 2014 winner, truly one of the worst books I have read. Both seem to be writing for a college essay class on how to use the most adjectives and metaphors possible while endlessly laboring over an irrelevant scene or point. This book does have some redeeming qualities, unlike The Goldfinch, in that the plot is good and there is character development and the struggle over competing loyalties and philosophies is often expressed well. The book should have been one hundred pages shorter.

Gives insight on the aftermath of the Vietnam war by a refugee. A North Vietnam Mole working in South Vietnam with the Americans prior to the fall. Also on the life of refugees in America shows that you can admit refugees into our country for humanitarian reasons but that does not mean that they will leave their loyalties to their homeland at the door. This group plots and plans a disastrous return through Laos which failed and brutal torture is applied by their captures, the North Vietnamese. Survival is the main focus of this book, the progenitor, the Captain is pulled and pushed along always having to prove his loyalties.

This is a dark and bitter book, extremely well written and it is a book Americans should read, if only to learn the futility of war. It shows the difficult lives of Vietnam refugees after the Fall of Saigon, as they try to adjust to life in the United States and yearn to take back their homeland. It offers frequent doses of wry humor that keep it from sinking into unbearable grimness. It gives not one acknowledgment of the hundreds of American lives sacrificed for the country of Vietnam, painting Americans as arrogant bastards throughout, informative but not entertaining.

Although the author certainly is a very good writer, I could never find any connection good or bad to the main character. He was neither likable nor unlikable, just never real and I had a very difficult time finishing the book and it is still not clear that what is the point of the whole story. It would have been helpful to separate out the dialog traditionally, rather than employ it within masses of other sentences and I would not recommend this to others.