#75. The Remains of the Day
#Kazuo Ishiguro
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Remains-Day-Kazuo-Ishiguro/product-reviews/0679731725/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

Beautifully restrained book and if you are looking for an author who holds your hold and forcefully tugs you through every emotion, every thought, and every conclusion, this is not the book for you. But if you appreciate a stunningly subtle and yet laser precise portrayal of a man who has spent his days in the pursuit of dignity, another word for being emotionless, and who realizes too late that he gave his life to an employer who did not deserve it and withheld his love from a woman who did, then pick this book up, savor it, and be prepared to laugh, cry, and think.

An engrossing first person narrative from the prototypical WWII British butler, about serving the upper class, wasted lives, lack of emotional connection, and the fine line between humanitarian ideals and being duped by an evil Nazi regime. All the more incredible due to the Japanese ethnicity of the author, despite his upbringing in England. His first novel not set in Japan, but England, very deservedly earned him a Nobel prize in Literature this year, one of the best books you have never read.

Do not be put off by readers who give the story or plot low points and they would be better off buying a John Grisham or Lee Child action thriller. The author writes in an understated somewhat stern way, but you will feel the abyss of the human condition between the lines, an outlandish mix of Jane Austen and Franz Kafka. The author was only over thirties at the time of writing this book, amazing. The author has published only six books so far, but those six books has given him a deserved Nobel prize.

I did not quite like the book initially and found it rather dull and slow paced, however, after I picked it up again after almost three months, I started to like it more and more. The beauty of the classical English language, the natural presentation of the narrator and his life make this book a great and enjoyable read, particularly more and more toward the end of it. Perhaps I will enjoy it even more as I get older and this is a book that calms down the soul of someone and let one reconciles with the past of someone when the day is turning to the night, recommended.

This remains one of my favourite books and the way that Ishiguro draws the reader into the world of butler is truly masterful. Stevens is the epitome of a high class butler, discreet, dedicated and loyal. In a journey to visit an ex housekeeper, he shares, through a series of flashbacks, seemingly small incidents that occurred while he was serving in the great house of Lord Darlington. Through perspective of Stevens, both what he says and does not say a sense of loss, regret and misplaced loyalty is conveyed. Ishiguro is able to show significant historical events and culture through the lens of one ordinary person. This is a book that I will read many times and treasure for its outstanding literary merit and excellent characterization.

This wonderful book is about a man in his later years who felt he had nearly reached the pinnacle of butler in an era when huge manor houses with huge staffs, were on the wane. He served with total dedication, loyalty and dignity which he felt were the most important aspects of a proper butler. Personal connections, a life, and judgment were not on the ultimate in the professional butler spectrum as far as he was concerned. Stevens, the butler, takes a solitary road trip where he has the chance to reflect on his life and has some interesting discussions that surprise him and make him think. My heart ached for awhile for the man who gave up everything for his career yet had no regrets. In fact, the trip inspired him to make a few subtle changes in his idea of what the consummate butler should be now that he was no longer in his prime and times had changed. There were still ways to serve in the time that remained.

Remains of the Day opens as a man identified throughout only as Stevens lays plans to motor through rural England to visit Miss Kenton, a woman who, during its glory days, served as housekeeper at Darlington Hall, the same manor where Stevens still works as head butler. After receiving a letter from Miss Kenton, Stevens is quite sure that she has expressed an unmistakable nostalgia for Darlington Hall and distinct hints of her desire to return here. This sets the tone for the forthcoming exploration of missed cues, misguided loyalties, and the budding of a nascent, but ultimately unsuccessful, journey into self awareness.

The perfect English it is written in, makes you enjoy immensely the tragic story of the stoical behavior of the very proper English butler who will never be able to fulfill his emotional life since he lacks that particular intelligence. He tries very hard to justify his existence at a quite mature period of his life through his believe that the dignity of the job of a perfect butler and the loyalty to Earl Darlington and the estate was the perfect way to lead his live. But besides the well perceived and described personal life of the characters, the novel takes place in a very disturbing and changing period of our world history which makes the story even more interesting. I would recommend to listen to a play list of music from the twenty and thirty and look up the different places he visits through his journey while enjoying the book.

I really liked how the story was told, as a series of flashbacks while the main character travels to a specific destination. The way it keeps up with the evolving thought process of narrator is brilliant and I was surprised to find the positive message at the end. Hopefully this is not much of a spoiler, but the remains of the day is not a reference to what has left at the end of the day, but actually a reference to the myriad possibilities that exist within the remainder of the day that has yet to pass.

When I started reading this book, I wondered why it had received such critical acclaim. Told in the first person, mainly in retrospect by a butler who has served in the same grand household for decades, I wondered what it was that made a story told by a man of limited learning no empathy and very limited world experience had to offer. After finishing I realized that in this quite slim volume, Ishiguro has held a mirror to so many things including the English politics between the first and second world wars, the English class system, the particular role of the butler in a great house, much different from that depicted in film and TV series, the nature of dignity, and interpersonal relationships, at a range of levels, and beautifully written. I realized why it had received such critical acclaim.