#76. Bread Illustrated: A Step-By-Step Guide to Achieving Bakery-Quality Results At Home
#America's Test Kitchen
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Bread-Illustrated-Step-Step-Bakery-Quality/dp/1940352606/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8

This is clearly an excellent book and I was excited to receive it and I will replace the defective one I received. That said, this book is too heavy for the light binding the publishers have given it. Because it is loaded with illustrations on high quality paper, it is a heavy book and it needs a heavier paperback binding or hardback binding and I hope the publisher is listening.

Weight and volume measurements are confusing, with a dry ingredient like flour, two cups equals twelve point five ounces, the weight. With a liquid ingredient, like cream, the half cups equals four ounces, volume, not weight. Yet the introduction says that all measurements are expressed as weight as a percentage of the flour used. I have been baking for thirty years using the method of baker weighing all ingredients using grams. I convert all of my recipes from the imperial system to metric, because metric is more precise and easier to use once the conversion is made. When going through this book to understand recipes, I cannot trust the measurements and do not know if the editors were consistent or not in differentiating weight from volume.

I really wanted to like this book, in fact, I wanted to like it so much that I ordered it. I have been baking bread for over ten years in my home kitchen and feel fairly comfortable with anything from no knead artisan bread to sandwich bread to Focaccia and naan. But, I always feel like I can learn something new and I am always excited to try a new bread recipe to see if it beats the recipes I have used for years. The recipes in this book are good and easy to follow, however, the set up of the book is maddening. Instead of being organized by type of bread you are baking, for example, a chapter on sandwich bread, a chapter on flat bread, a chapter on enriched or sweet bread, it is organized by how difficult or challenging the bread is to make. So, if you wanted to make a flat bread but you were not sure of the name or you just wanted to try something other than pita, you would have to search through the whole book to find all of the recipes to see what your options are. Same with sandwich bread or crusty artisan breads, it is maddening, so maddening that I rarely use the book and turn elsewhere when I am looking for new recipes and I would skip this book and buy a book with better organization.

The most annoying thing is that the directions for the recipe are on the back side of the page with the ingredients so, lots of flipping back and forth. Also, the pages are flimsy and you know when you are using a cookbook, it needs to lay flat. I know this is a soft cover book but, even when I open it up to lay somewhat flat, the pages are coming undone. The book is okay, not the be all end all, it would lead you to believe. I may just stick to internet for recipes where I can look at the whole thing on a tablet.

I have made five recipes from this book and I have not been thrilled with the results and the interesting one day breads are okay, but the more advanced breads have caused me many problems. First, the weights are in fractions, what scale have you ever seen that can handle three one eighth ounce, how is that a thing they thought would be helpful. Additionally, the weights are not consistent with other books I have used and I asked for help online with one of the recipes and I am pretty sure they never read my question because they just asked me to do things I stated in the question I had already done. I was really excited by this book and I have been bummed since the first recipe I tried. I will keep trying more of them, I already have the book after all, but I would not recommend this to anyone.

I have made six different recipes from this book and they are not hard and come out looking good, but they are all too salty. Even the monkey bread that is supposed to be sweet with brown sugar and cinnamon, the recipe calls for two teaspoons of salt. The Kaiser rolls, one tablespoon of salt, Classic Italian bread one and half teaspoons of salt. I like salt and I always salt my dinner and these recipes are too salty for me. I am a big fan of American Test Kitchen but this is a swing and a miss, sorry.

This book has two major flaws, firstly, people are cutting out white bread in a big way. This book has virtually no description on real Whole Wheat breads and real nutrient value and fiber in them, A fifty percent Whole Wheat bread is a farce in real nutrition. There are major differences in whole wheat and several flours are high protein and fiber as well as all the vitamins and minerals and this book leaves that all out. The second major failure is baking at high elevations, over three thousand feet. Between summer and winter seasons there are hundreds of thousands of people that spend vacations and seasons in mountain properties and some of the fastest growing areas of the country are the mountain regions from coast to coast. A good and simple guide to baking at this elevation would have been priceless and I expected vastly more from American Test Kitchen.

I just tried to make New York bagels from this cookbook, and the results were disastrous. The recipe calls for two two thirds cups of flour to one cup plus two tablespoon of water and it made an extremely soft, gooey dough and I added a bit more flour, and shaped them the best I could. After an overnight rest in the fridge, they were completely flat, and boiling them made them worse. I should have thrown them out right then, but I took a chance on baking them, hoping that they would puff up. They emerged like misshapen rings of lead. I have made the bagels in the Baking Book, four cups of flour, one cup of water and They are perfect. Also made the sourdough bread twice, complete with special cloth lined and lava rocks. Both times the dough stuck fiercely to the cloth, no matter how much I floured it. Too much work for such mediocre results and I made pita bread today, and sure enough, the recipe flopped. I have made pita many, many times, but I thought the addition of one forth cup of olive oil looked interesting and I did not even get one puff. Followed the recipe exactly, and got something more like Naan and I guess I will toss this book.

I expected the whole book to be like the last two chapters, professional style breads at home, like the cover. Instead, most of the book yields mediocre looking results including a skillet pizza with an unrisen dough and crescent rolls that will make guests believe you made them out of tube. This a great book for someone with zero experience with any type of breads, but terrible for someone with some knowledge.

Great recipes, lots of information, good photos and the ingredients lists are almost impossible to read, pale color on white, so I had to write them out, so I can read while making the bread. After making about three different breads the pages starting falling out and I may write out the few recipes I most want and give up on the book. I have gone on to The Bakers Apprentice, Hamelmans Bread, The Bread Bible and others including some old standbys. The recipes are readable without squinting or copying and the books, some of them decades old, are not falling apart.