#77. The God of Small Things: A Novel
#Arundhati Roy
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/God-Small-Things-Novel/product-reviews/0812979656/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_viewpnt_lft?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews&filterByStar=positive&pageNumber=1

It is a beautifully written story about a set of twins, a boy and girl, living in India. There are many levels to it including the characters of their mother, aunt, grandmother and uncle with whom they live. You feel the tension as the plot builds and builds. There were times I did not want to put the book down, even though the reader is aware of an ominous ending. I have to say though, I would rather feel hopeful and feel a sense of justice at the end of a story, unfortunately it left me with feelings of despair and sadness.

The book immerses the reader a lot in Indian and Keralan culture which I enjoyed a lot, on the other hand, the main story is very universal, it could be set almost anywhere in the past century. The main themes about the role and breakdown of family, tradition, social hierarchies and mainly about missing and trying to find the capacity to love also resonates really much with me, someone from Eastern Europe. The specific Indian issues, the caste system, relations to the British, mainly provide the backdrop on which the fundamental human issues play out. In this way it really meant a lot to me, experiencing the feelings that this novel stirred up in me.

Twins, a boy and girl, separated while children, meet again decades later in their hometown in India, both of them broken people. The key to their conditions lies in the past, the reason why they were separated. The story is approached indirectly through the perspectives of two children and the adult participants, each who has a different perspective based on caste, level of education, prejudices, economic division, and politics. These are slow wheels that grind and regrind, finally interlocking to mash in place a tragedy, related with intelligence. In the early pages, the author has staked her claim in international literature with subsumed references to literary greats, but for all her posturing it is not until she integrates her own sense as an Indian writer as grist to contend with on the international stage of literature that her distilled story flows as universal.

I have had this book on my reading list for years and was really excited to get to it, given its accolades and prizes. The writing is very evocative, with several passages beautifully written, but I have to be honest and say there were a few times I felt the writing stalled out, with some sections feeling a bit tedious. Obviously my personal feeling, but I was surprised given the reputation of the writer, overall, a good read, just not the perfection I was hoping for.

The prose of Roy is near poetry and her beautiful descriptions make it almost possible to forget the complicated lives she describes and it is not an easy read but so worth the effort. The caste system of India is at the heart of the story, though long since outlawed it is alive and well in the culture, as is racism in every corner of the world, but you will love the characters as exasperating as they are.

This is a surprising read, seemingly chaotic, scrambled and complex, but, in the end, revealing a beautiful tragedy. Reading is is a bit like struggling with a daunting jigsaw puzzle, dumped out of an old shoe box with not even a picture to go by. But the puzzle pieces, the brilliantly chosen words, and the believable, though foreign, imagery, draw you in. And, gradually, you discover a lovely and horrible picture you cannot forget.

Written in a non linear sequence of events, this book truly frustrated me. After the first read, I understood it, as we were suppose to, and if I were inclined to, I would read it a second time and go. I give it four stars mainly because of my personal taste about non linear chronology, and I did not see what it had to do with my class, understanding Religious Traditions in Multicultural America. While religion is a topic in this book, I felt it focused more on class or caste systems and different cultural expectations the characters had. Tragedies are everywhere in this book and I can not find a single happy ending, but the characters are vivid and distinct. Non South Asians may have a hard time remembering the names at first.

As I ventured into the story, I was both thrown by the jerky narrative and intrigued by the members of a family who came to life before my eyes. Through vivid descriptions of place, the rural setting at the southern tip of India grew more real to me than my own surroundings. I persevered, and soon understood that the story does not start at the beginning, but near the end. The story line jumps back and forth from past to present, allowing the reader to examine past events in light of the present consequences. When I came to the last page I was stunned, and heartbroken to think that loving the wrong person, at the wrong time, too much, could ultimately destroyed an entire extended family.

I found this book difficult to read the first time round and the clever writing style, moving backwards and forwards in time and the unfamiliar Indian names made it a challenge. But having read it once I have kept going back for more, it is so cleverly written you glean more and more every time you reread it. A very sad and moving book, highlighting the Indian class system and it has injustices. If you are having doubts as to whether to finish it or give up on the way, I would recommend you persevere as it really is a very satisfying read.

A tragic story, very tragic indeed, however, India did not invent discrimination, and changing the cultural structure is not achieved by passing a law. The story is a very human one and I enjoyed the structure of the book, forward, flashbacks, present. And the quirky prose of the author is absolutely delightful, the images she creates are almost painterly original. I liked the book so much that when I finished, I immediately started reading it again in order to appreciate the weaving back and forth. Even more, catch the the subtle hints dropped again and again, and even though we know from the beginning that Sophie will die, the suspense is kept until the very end and I loved the book.