#78. A Brief History of Seven Killings: A Novel
#Marlon James
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Brief-History-Seven-Killings-Novel/product-reviews/1594633940/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_show_all_btm?ie=UTF8&reviewerType=all_reviews

Bob Marley is to sing in a concert to foster peace in bitterly divided country. The ruling communist party, aided by Cuba, tries to hang on to power against the CIA backed right wing party. Several days before the event, there is an assassination attempt against the Singer by eight gunmen. Who ordered the attack and why, this historical novel follows the lives of the hit men, from their early days in Kingston, to the 1980 and 1990 in Miami and New York. Who cares, you may ask, in fact, it was only after it won the Booker Prize that I decided to embark on this hundreds of page journey. The first hundred pages were rough indeed, not only was the Jamaican patois laborious, but the intricate plot and the countless personages meant I had to be fully focused and alert. Thus it was with great sadness that I had to renounce my favourite reading spot, my bed. At some point, my sensibilities began to accept the strangeness of this new language and to eventually come to see the musicality of lyrical prose of Marlon James. This novel is a sensorial explosion and The visual and osmic descriptions as well as the melody of the writing made for an enthralling literary experience.

I got the audio version of the book and it was fantastic and it had multiple narrators so the female person was read by a female, persons with American accents read for the American characters and the same was done for the Jamaican characters. I liked the story although I thought it was a little long and the first part where the attack of Singer was being planned I found was more cohesive than the later parts but all the events dovetailed in the end. There were a large number of balls in the air for this novel and the writer kept most of them moving smoothly for the most part but there were a few that fell. Profane language is used frequently and there is a great deal of graphic violence. The focus is on people who are poor, not short on money, but poor and trying to survive any way they can, this results in hard actions by desperate people. Given the choices of the writer, I think he did a great job in conveying how people survive in desperate circumstances and the forces that take advantage of them for selfish purposes. The book can be hard to read but I think it is worth it if the reader can stand the profanity and violence and I recommend this book and am hoping to read more works by this author.

Each chapter of this book is a first person account and some of the chapters are quite graphic in both their language and content. This entertains, but because there are so many switches from politicians, to scared women, to gangster killers, to CIA, to journalists, in the end I had to make an exhaustive, hand written list of who was who and who was what. Although there is a list of all the characters at the start of the novel, my book cannot automatically return to a specific place once it leaves that page. Finally, with this list I was able to work out who was doing the talking in each chapter. Every one of the characters live in their own little self made or circumstantial hells, so be forewarned that this is not an easy read for this reason alone. It is also not an easy read due to the Jamaican patois of some of the characters and convoluted structure of the story. I had to take regular breathers from the novel to rid myself of the thoughts of certain psychopathic types, psychopaths abound in this book, so do not be squeamish. Characters appear and disappear at random. Some are significant to the plot and some are not. Thankfully, by perseverance, I was finally able to decipher what was being said by the Jamaicans and a plot even began to emerge. The story started to take on an exciting, suspenseful edge towards the second half, be warned, this novel is fully bad to the core, although not a bad read at all.

A very revealing story about this historical period and the death of the Singer, Bob Marley, however, the dialogue was very, very difficult to read, understand, and then using it to permit one to track the story. A simple glossary of terms would have been most helpful to the reader, and to the flow of the story being told. The very colorful and imaginative use of the various players points of view, although a bit confusing, made this a riveting and ultimately sad tale of the destruction of this period. Such period is concerning the brief glimmer of democracy that was victimized by the internal greed, power lust and simple craziness of these Jamaican characters and factions, over which the presence and meddling hand of the US Government and its anti Cuban paranoia kept the entire country off balance, thereby preventing an honest election and the possibility of a democratic, cohesive and progressive society, all of plots, was well told.

Given the hype, I am fairly disappointed by this book and there are no characters, rather every voice in the book is an archetype. You feel like you are dealing with types of people, rather than actual people, whose behaviors and attitudes are in commonly a blend of types. The period in history and the location of the book is far better expressed by the musicians who were producing records at that time. While this book tries to capture what must have been the vibrancy of that musical era, it again reduces things, like genres of music and national viewpoints, or a combination of the two, down to types. The only character who appears to attempt to break through the stereotypes is Bob Marley. I suppose as a literary technique, that may have been the intention of the author all along. But the book is predominately about people who are peripheral to Marley. The book is not a complete waste of time and it is well worth a read, but some of the adulation may be a bit over the top.

There were some aspects of the story that seem to be a bit strained, and did not seem to add a whole lot to where the where then story came from and where it went. That was particularly the case of the continually changing personas of Nina Burgess. While she and her family did help to underscore the troubled relationship of uptown and ghetto Kingston, and presented in confused perception of the Nouveau rich black and brown upper middle class of itself, her continued presence at various points did not necessarily give more impact to the book. It seemed almost a subplot , that while it did not really hurt, did add a lot to story which was already carrying itself.

As an average reader, this book was difficult for me to read, but after getting through the first chapter, I started to understand the style of writing. The book is harsh, cold, with hard core truths in your face. If you have knowledge about Jamaica and the history of the events that happened during the time the book is taking place it makes sense. All previous reviewers and reviews are accurate and it is a very good read, still not finished reading as I got side tracked with life but will go back and finish and I have this books for about four months now. I recommend it highly, it is written in English Patois, not Jamaican Patois, basically it means, it is written in the English words but the characters are speaking in Patois so the language, grammar, punctuation, is all gone out the door. After all there is an entire chapter with no punctuation, no full stops, none except the end of the character. Imagine reading a whole chapter of run on sentences and I actually had to read it two or three times to make sure I did not miss a punctuation mark, but there is not one. Overall, get the book, book, audio book, it is a very good read.

This book is mesmerizing, using a 1976 attempted assassination of Bob Marley as a jumping off point for a deeply complex exploration of Jamaican politics and the gangs it spawned in the period of time that two political parties, one right leaning and the other left leaning, jockeyed for power using all tools, such as American CIA and the Medellin drug lords, at their disposal. Marlon James is an incredible talent since his writing conveys Kingston, its ghettos, its police and its innocents, through writing that is comic, dark, exhausting and epic. Sometimes he writes in almost a stream of Patois consciousness which while hard to follow immerses one in the rhythms of the life in Kingston, amazing and wonderful.

Holy cow what a ride and super distinct voiced characters mixed into complex interwoven plot lines. Really eye opening even for someone alive during the time in which the story is set. Some mention having trouble understanding the island patois, but I found my brain quickly adapted and I really did not notice it after a short period of reading. This book is unflinching in the face of some extremely violent events, and it is definitely not for the squeamish or faint of heart, however I found it to be a very rewarding and satisfying read.

I am not sure how accessible this book will be for someone who is not familiar with Jamaican patois or dialiect. But for anyone who is willing to read it without trying to parse all the words into standard English, this is one of the best things I have ever read. It sometimes helps just to read the dialogue out loud, of course, for those of Jamaican extraction, or even just familiar with the dialect, it is a piece of cake. Part history, part storytelling, part poetry, part philosophy, this book covers a twenty year sweep and you name it, this book has it.