#83. Fifty Shades Freed: Book Three of the Fifty Shades Trilogy (Fifty Shades of Grey Series) (English Edition)
#E L James
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Fifty-Shades-Freed-Trilogy-English/dp/0345803507/ref=sr_1_22?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-22

No, just no, when I downloaded this series to my kindle before leaving on a long European adventure, I was reminded of the old saying that if everyone else was jumping off a bridge, would you. I like sex, and god help me, I liked Twilight, mostly I loved Wuthering Heights, the book that inspired Twilight and then, this. But, Christian Grey is too young and one dimensional to be that twisted, even to be a billionaire, it would help if she actually interviewed one. Anastasia is a simpleton, through and through and one thing the book gets right, these two really belong together. I tried to turn off my intellectual understanding and proceeded to take it at just porn level, but even the love scenes failed to titillate. I only weep for all the trees that were destroyed due to this book.

Many people I know love these novels and the subsequent movies, personally, I cannot see why and the writing is incredibly juvenile and weak. Aside from some of the sex scenes, a five year old could have written this and there are much better erotic novels out there. The concept was interesting, about a haunted man who finds an outlet through BDSM, but the execution was poor, I found nothing compelling about the lead female. I did not bother reading the third book and I will give almost any book a try, and was hoping that it would get better after the first because a friend really wanted me to read these, but after the second, I gave up and gave the books away.

I have tried to post a scathing review of how bad this book is, three times. I have followed the guidelines yet for some reason amazon will not post my review. I am starting to think they are in love with the book and do not want it getting bad reviews. This book is bad and do not waste your money since it is not sexy and there is better out there. Is that okay amazon, or are you gonna reject that one too and I will not rest until I get my review up.

Given what I would heard about this book I expected it to be poorly written and salacious. I had never intended to read it for those reasons. But with the movie out this weekend, I can not walk two feet without having this book in my face. I decided I needed to read it, so I would truly know what all the fuss was about and what surprised me was how boring it was. There was no plot and the dialogue was silly, also, with all the talk about this book, I expected it to be sexy to the point of scandalous. I did not find it sexy at all and certainly not romantic, when all is said and done, it is not the subject matter that I find offensive and It is the bad writing.

Oh my, the author flushes every paragraph, and not a toilet in sight. Her abusive boyfriend smirks a gazillion times. Holy crap, double crap, the list of dumb, repetitive expressions goes on and on. Her inner goddess would be cute, if she was only mentioned once or twice. I guarantee that you will get really tired of her by the back flip, cartwheel, or salsa dance and then there is the stupid hanging pants. Since the guy is a billionaire, why does not he own a belt and Stephanie Meyer looks like a Nobel prize winner by comparison.

Finally decided to take the plunge after hearing so much about this book, and was disappointed, ridiculous plot, and no depth to the characters. To me, it reads like a cheap romance novel where the maiden is always a virgin, gorgeous, and finds out she is a steamy temptress once she gets deflowered. And of course the man is handsome, dashing, and wealthy, sometimes a pirate, or maybe the lord of a manor. I lost interest within the first few chapters because the plot is so easy to figure out that it did not hold my attention and, this was a waste of my money.

I thought it was fair and the author uses certain things like cocking the head sideways, and many other repeats too many times. Also there was too much thinking by Ana, which when printed confused me. I have seen much better free stories just floating around on the internet with no hype at all. Where in the world is there a billionaire that looks like a Greek God, in his mid twenties, who flies a helicopter, a glider, and runs a huge business I ask you. In the mind of a teenager, oh yeah, they all used too many big words, which either required a degree in literature, or a lot of Dictionary browsing. This book seemed to be on the fence about BDSM and I personally do not like it, but in the end Ana found out she did not like it either. The thing which would have made it perfect was Ana taking an handle to the head of Grey. That would teach this rich sob what pain was and this book could have been written by a fifteen year old using a dictionary.

I actually read this book and I bought it a year ago and finally read it and took me three weeks to get through it, so much potential, very poorly written, the inner goddess is annoying. The sex on her period was disgusting and they did not even sound American, I looked it up, the Author is British, so that Makes sense. I have read worse, but I have read so much better, how did this book become so famous. The Author is laughing her way to the bank while we complain and read this book we do not like and she must have done something right, I do not get it. Two stars because I actually finished it and I deserve a prize, also, can not stand Ana. Wanted to throat punch her many times, I could elaborate more, but I am Too annoyed, so, read the other thousand or two negative reviews.

So I listened to the buzz about this book and succumbed to the pressures of friends. I finally bought it when I learned it has made it into the English Departments of some colleges and after reading most of it I am surprised this poorly composed piece of trash has made it into classes. The book, has no business being compared to anything related to Literature. I do not mean the naughty stuff contained in every chapter, I mean the lack of writing skills demonstrated by this author is nothing short of astounding. Absolute rubbish, never made it to the end of the book let alone the series. Do not waste your time if you are looking for a plot, deep characters or anything resembling taste or tact.

I do not understand the hype, very disappointing and it is probably my fault for expecting something inspiring or real from a work of fiction. I did hope it was at least based on some realistic facts, but no. This is basically a fictitious story about someone falling in love with an abuse man, knowing he was abusive going in. Dominate men are not abusive. TPE and domination is more about protection, nurturing, and caring, than abuse and selfish behavior, very interesting topic, very poor and unrealistic character, Gray. If you are interested in this topic, there is much better reading available.