#84. Disgrace: A Novel
#J. M. Coetzee
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Disgrace-Novel-J-M-Coetzee/dp/0140296409/ref=sr_1_26?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-26

Coetzee is a wonderful writer, easy to read, but original and compelling. This is a dark, depressing novel, the main character here, a professor who had an affair with a young student, is not even minimally developed. Yes, we know he is cynical and selfish and we know he is supposed to represent an old white South African. We know he wants to be Byron and we are told he loves his daughter deeply, and wishes to deeply connect with her, but I did not see it. Maybe because her main function, too, is to retain her symbolism. The author is more concerned with making a political and literary statement than creating characters with whom readers really connect, so I could not care much, even the dogs are sacrificed to the Great Theme.

Since I am a male and my wife also read the novel, I asked her if she was troubled by that element and if she thought any woman would remain under the circumstances described. Her response is that no woman, absolutely positively none, would voluntarily remain there when she could leave. With that construct unbelievable, the entire novel fails as a story and becomes an allegory or parable and the characters become representatives of ideas or positions and you cannot live additional lives vicariously through them. It is also a novel that heavy shoves ideas at you and it is a novel of style, written in the style of Camus, unfortunately, that is all it is, in the style of. Camus wrote in sparse, spare language about people who were believable and had soul. This is a stylistic imitation that is devoid of believable characters and which must have been written with the hope that style will would substitute for substance but it does not.

This novel did have an effect upon me, it made me even more dubious about important awards and literary reviewers. I do not mind depressing books as long as they provide insight, memorable images or stunning turns of phrase. This novel provides none of these and it is an awful book perhaps only redeemed by literary group think. Could it be that one half dozen favorable reviews produced a landslide, and it seems so.

I was disappointed, after having read Life and Times of Michael that a novel, and waiting for the barbarians, Penguin Great Books of the twentieth Century, both of which exhibit quiet genius for characterization and subtle but relentless alternation between tension and relief. Disgrace seemed more like humiliation, which is the dominant theme, but it is unsubtle and often loses focus in its minor stories of the characters and detours from the main plot. There are numerous clever devices, and in fact the beginning is wonderful in terms of setting up the disgrace of the protagonist, but some things, such a scene in which David, the main character who prides himself on his ability to seduce ravishing young women, is duped into having sex with a fat, middle aged woman, and thinks of it as an additional punishment. As always, The author portrays South Africa, its culture and its people with brilliance and sensitivity, but this is done better in his other books.

Let us avoid confusing this mediocrity with a great novel and we have here a five star story with a two star execution. David Lurie, the middle aged protagonist on the downslide, maintains an air of intellectual superiority through a steady progression of reversals less dark than some reviews portend. The book deals with interesting, universal themes that the clash of two cultures, a difficult parent adult child relationship, growing old. But unfortunately in the development, every single twist of plot winds up without going anywhere. The writing is passable, entertaining, and lacking in wit and cleverness. To give the author credit there is a modern philosphical and psychological background to his characters, but I read the book and I am unable to tell you what it is. How much more interesting and believable had Lurie finally received, perhaps from a more intellectually capable Melanie, or had the black criminals been dealt with in some manner after their crime, maybe by a firing squad of black African police.

I heard a lot about this book and felt that I was missing something by not reading it and I do not get it and I found the protagonist to be difficult to identify with. I found other characters not well developed, so I could not feel for them. The topic of rape was touched on, but there was no resolution for me the reader. I understand that part of the story was a documentary on life in South Africa, so in that I can appreciate some of the plot and conflict within the story. Perhaps you will enjoy the story more if you have visited the area and the one saving grace for the book was the fact that it had a theme regarding the dangerous consequences of bad judgment. We have all been in situations that did not seem to be a big deal but later ended up being ordeals and this is a good example of a bad decision costing much.

I think the author is a brilliant writer and Michael is an astonishing book but few books have ever disappointed me as much as this one. As an allegory of post apartheid South Africa this book is a nasty mess and it is not reasonable to ask the author to present an optimistic or hopeful vision but for readers who do not know South Africa. I cannot put this book is racial politics into some kind of context and this will only reinforce the sense that the new government or social order is no better than the old one, just new masters exacting revenge from the old ones in the most sickening ways. In spite of all the real problems that South Africa has, that is not a fair conclusion, if you find this book compelling, ask yourself why that is. Does it provide a comforting sort of message that everyone is racist and that only animals really deserve our love and concern.

Disgrace shows two dimensional characters dealing with problems that deserve a much richer and more thoughtful treatment. The violence is abstract and seems to exist solely as a device to explore some of larger problems of South Africa. The novel opened in a very compelling way, but the moment the author moved from personal problems of Lurie to the broader spectrum of concerns dealing with race and gender, his narrative lost steam and credibility. I was reminded of my response to A Gesture Life, both are philosophical novels that fail to fully engage the reader in the main plight of the character.

I was prepared to love this book, hence I was left more than slightly disappointed when I remotely enjoyed most of it. I did not find it stunning, beautiful or highly inspirational, and at times found it a little hard, a little too crude and confronting. In some texts, this works, but for some reason Disgrace did not shock me into action or thought, but more disgust and indifference. The theme no doubt a very interesting one, the story a heart wrenching and ironic display of division in South Africa, but I found myself ultimately disliking David Lurie, and as the book proceeded, caring little about his selfish views or problems. His problems, ultimately were brought upon himself, and I resented the fact that he refused to take responsibility or care until the ending. I feel that this was decent, perhaps even quite good, but again, I would doubt that it is Booker standard, a second year in a row, a short, and worthwhile read, but nothing amazingly special or spectacular.

I am sorry and I do not understand the standing of this man and He has won more Bookers than anyone else, which means he is better than Rushdie, MacEwan, Byatt, right. I have to be missing something, the prose is determinedly mediocre, the treatment of violence and its effects is crass, the analysis of modern South Africa unenlightening. The main character is less offensive than a bore and it is not all bad, the show trial of the university is genuinely frightening, and the passages about the dogs, with their mixture of horror, tenderness and emotional blankness are almost moving. More of this and it could have been a tolerable novel, but, once again vast social and gender issues are reduced to the self pity of a middle class white male.