#85. The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress
#Robert A. Heinlein
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Moon-Harsh-Mistress-Robert-Heinlein/dp/0312863551/ref=sr_1_27?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-27

I first fell in love with Robert Heinlein as a teenager and I thoroughly enjoyed his young adult adventures, but found this one annoying. Coming back to the author as an adult, I decided to reread the books I found difficult before. I found the vivid descriptions of a possible life on the moon fascinating and the idea of a computer come to life is not that alien to us now, this was written in the 1940, I think, but the character development was constantly interesting. Even more so were the concepts and tactics of revolution, the morality and strategy behind it, all this I missed as a youngster and I now fully understand its award status.

Though a bit long, the action and the story line kept going, and I kept asking, now what, then, in a bit, I found out, and then things would take a change and the action kept going. Heinlein won four Hugo Awards, at least one for this particular piece. This is not only full of action and realistic characters, it is literature in the classical sense. Who actually won the war, what kind of victory was it, what kind of loss was it, and for what end, good, or bad.

If you are planning to overthrow a government anytime soon, this old science fiction classic by the radical libertarian, Robert Heinlein, will show you the way to pull it off. First you need a talking computer with a supper brain and an Artificial Intelligence soul on your side. Then you need to be able to throw rocks, big ones. Buy this one for a non science fiction reader on your shopping list, who enjoys political thrillers. Moon is one of my favorite books, just behind Starship Troopers of Heinlein and every American should be required to read these two books in their civics class.

I liked this book as a kid and as an adult, as an adult I picked up on more, for example, on page twenty seven, people start to sing, arise yer prisoners of starvation. That is the second line in the Communist anthem, The Internationale and when they lift a banner that says, liberty, equality, fraternity. You must know that is from the French Revolution, be aware that the people on the moon are portrayed as speaking in a broken English dialect. That annoys many readers and if you like to pick up a book and read for hours at a time, this one has the action to keep you turning those pages.

This is a novel that I suggest everyone read at least three times, if not more often and It does not matter what your politics are or what you sexuality might be. Heinlein was a great thinker and writer and he fully understood his fellow man. I just wish I could do as well at that as he did, but I lack the tolerance Heinlein possessed. I fear that he would have considered me to be a rude and crude savage unworthy of his time, but I still think that he got most of his social and political thinking were right on target.

Is there ever anything else that needs to be said and it is classic Heinlein and that is the only recommendation such a book needs. You either know him and love him, you were referred to the grand master and have come to love him or, for reasons fathomable only to a select few you do not like him. If you are a member of the first two groups enjoy and I have personally waited a long time for Heinlein to come available in quality format. I have just spent an enjoyable few days rereading an old friend and if you are a member of the last group, you have my sympathies. It is a bit like being an earthworm never truly being able to enjoy a rainbow.

Masquerading as a Science Fiction novel by one of the most talented and insightful authors in the history of the genre. This book promotes civic nationalism, though maybe because the moon had no indigenous people and all the colonists apparently have managed to intermarry, maybe it does not. I have read this three times, since it was first published and will certainly read it again.

I am a bit shocked it has taken me this long to read this one of Heinlen and it really is one of his best, in my humble opinion. If you are already familiar with Heinlen you probably do not need me selling this book as a good read to you. This is a great book and it is written first person, meaning a resident of the Moon and he has something of an accent. Some of the grammar actually reminds me of a friend who has a Russian accent and it may take a bit to get used to this as at first it seems as if the author has really bad grammar. However, once you get used to it, it adds to the story and I found it interesting. This is a tale of revolution, politics, history and understated heroes, one of the best around.

This book was recommended to me by my son who is a died in the wool fan of Robert Heinlein. I am not naturally drawn to science fiction but, between my son and a friend who are equally insistent and I read what they press on me and I am never disappointed. The Moon is a Harsh Mistress was published in 1965 and, like I have found with all good science fiction, it holds up well over time. Put yourself in the right mood and this book moves fast and will hold your interest throughout.

This is an excellent book and I am new to science fiction, Enders Game being what got me hooked on Military science fiction. Never thought I would read this stuff and I normally read fiction, but some of these science fiction books are really incredible and contain some of the best writing and stories I have come across. This book along with Troopers are two that I am glad to have read. If you are like me and late to science fiction, absolutely read this book. It is a great book to measure all others in the genre to and now I am going to try and write a review of a book that was a complete waste of money, embedded.