#86. The White Tiger: A Novel
#Aravind Adiga
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/White-Tiger-Novel-Aravind-Adiga/dp/1416562605/ref=sr_1_30?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556576757&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-30

According to the item description the condition of the book was a nice clean copy with no writing and it was listed as in very good condition. Well there is writing in the book and the front cover has several semi transparent milky stains on it. Also they included a bookmark which turns out to be a ripped up napkin, way to splurge on that bookmark. I kinda do not want to touch the thing and the stains are really freaking me out. The book is very worn and the edges of the book are damaged and the corners of the book are dull and folded back.

Not sure how I feel about this one and it isinteresting to get the perspective of Balram, the villager turned driver turned entrepreneur and it was eye opening about the caste system they have. You are from a family that makes sweets, you could only ever be good at making sweets and this dictation is read through a persons last name. Although he was destined for sweets, Balram found himself driving for a rather wealthy man and using what he learned from that man, as well as the city, to create himself into a successful business man.

This book is a required reading for a college course I am taking, but it was one of many books I ordered for one of my classes and when I finally got to this book, it was defective. The first page after the cover was glued in defectively and I was crushed up and flattened to fit inside the book. If I liked a book I read, I usually keeps them for my personal library. I did not even attempted to read this and I am returning it and will have to go to the bookstore of my school tomorrow.

No plot and a boring silly unrealistic story, no real characters, grotesque descriptions and vulgar for no purpose, snookered Booker and pitiful representation of Indian writers, no mas for this sad writer, Slum Dog Millionaire was a story with a plot, characters and fair representation with out constant grotesque references comparisons. Do not waste your money unless, you have read everything else.

I know this book has generated tons of controversy, and after reading it, I feel like much of the criticism, undermining literature on India Shining, lackluster prose, rude, simplistic, undeserving of the Booker, was spurred by jealousy. True it is not an Uber literary book, and the narration is so irreverent, the characters so plainly drawn, that I could not always connect, but I loved the subject. The author fearlessly plows through the life of a village boy turned city entrepreneur, with nary a pitying glance. The White Tiger is structured and paced well, the story is engaging, but mostly it was the commitment to outlining the Indian class divide, to the struggle of the poor and the darkness against the rich and the light, that got me. Even though they are stark and caricatured at times, these themes make this an important book.

This book is written from the perspective of a barely educated man who has grown up in the poor section of India which he calls The Darkness. He was forced out of school and sent to work in the city aka The Light where he manages to convince a rich family of hiring him as a servant. The story begins with him telling his tale after he has risen to heights he never thought imaginable and is now a business owner. The book tells the tale of his struggle and gives insights and philosophical observations about Indian politics and the corruption surrounding it, as seen through the eyes of a poor man. All in all a good story that boasts a simplistic writing style and witty comments, not the best I have read but definitely a good, light read.

The White Tiger did not blow me away, but it is an enjoyable read and the characters are interesting and the story is engrossing. It gives the reader a personal look into what it means to be wealthy or poor in India. It also delves into the corruption that exists in the government and the influence of other cultures on India, while examining the prospect of India rise in the world economy. I would recommend it to anyone who is in between books and is looking for a good piece of fiction.

The book had a plausible story line and the author did a good job of keeping it interesting and having the reader involved. Some of the descriptions of rural life of Balram were very realistic, but in what world is he living, the India he is talking of, no doubt exists to a certain degree, but the darkness and socialist party references were a little too much. I feel that maybe the author left India about thirty years ago and still has the image of the time he left with him. I do not mean to discredit his description of the rural life, because little no change has occurred in that field, however I did find the big picture a little stale. It almost felt like he wrote the book for a certain type of reader and the kind of reader who is looking for mystery or mysticism in India, the land of snake charmers and yogis. The book had a very stereotypical feel to it, enhancing and embellishing the poverty, death decay.

What rubbish, I listen to this book on audio and the narrator mispronounced key words and names, but that is not what makes this novel so awful. The self loathing of the author is very evident through the story and I have met many Indians who are uncomfortable with the inequalities in India. This discomfort turns into a cynical, we rich get what we deserve attitude. It is an attitude that undermines the richly descriptive writing and the author paints a richly detailed landscape. As an outsider, the picture of highly nuanced society of the India is lost in ridiculous characters. It was wholly unsatisfying read, there are many other who capture India much better than this one.

Narration of the story is really catchy and it explains about how a driver becomes the master of drivers, but it gives a picture of betrayal in each character such as his Kusum, Stork, Mongoose, Pinky madam and of course Ashok. Balram becomes entrepreneur by murdering his master and there are two sides of good and bad things. Good thing is that the driver leads a successful life and Bad thing is that he murders his master which is more highlighted boldly. It is not a good example of inspiring people though the story is really a bold act of the main character Balram.