#91. Redshirts: A Novel with Three Codas
#John Scalzi
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Redshirts-Novel-Three-John-Scalzi/dp/0765334798/ref=sr_1_40?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-40

This book is a fast paced and hilarious novel about the expendable ensigns of a Star Trekish ship in a Star Trekish world, and their Star Trekish solution to keep their officers from getting them killed on away missions. The premise tells you all you need to know about the darkly hilarious tone of this book, and that same tone dominates what happens to the characters throughout. I found myself laughing out loud as I read this, and really got a kick out of the dialogue and references to the Trek world and to our own twenty first century lives. But this is not just some clever jokey novel, the deaths carry weight, the tension is exciting, and the impact of the events are felt in core characters of Scalzi. This is not the best written book in the known universe and, as others have stated, could use a lot more variety in the presentation of dialogue, but it is a whole lot fun, and the content more than made up for any problems I had with the writing.

My sister and my nephew recommended this book to me, in fact they almost tied me to a chair so I would read it. I love to read anyway, so I thought, what the heck and what an amazing book this is, it is unlike anything I have ever read before, and possibly unlike anything that will come again. The story grabs you from the first page and you are helpless and you can not put it down until you are done. I can not even begin to describe the story because by doing so, I would have to explain it in such a way that it would spoil it for the next reader. It needs to be read and savored and my first thought when I reached the end was, is that all. If you were lucky enough to read old Man War, this book is equal. This author is truly gifted and I will be spending time reading more of his novels, thank you for writing the book, Scalzi, it is a gift.

This is a really entertaining book on a lot of levels, especially as a fan of Star Trek. It is full of humor and unique takes on the Trek formula, which is really accented by an excellent reading from Will Wheaton. I can not rate it perfect because I found the three codas to be a bit too long for my liking and it dragged on a bit after what felt like the climax of the book, aside from that and I really enjoyed it.

Then, there are the three codas and think of them as unnecessary to the plot of the book, but it is almost like bonus material. The codas tie up some points I did not really realized needed tying up, but I am glad they were there. The three of them together equaled about a quarter of the total novel, and they are well worth the time and all the laughter I spent on the book itself was balanced with some truly heartfelt tears. Yes, tears, and I listened to it at work, so yes, I was crying a little at work at the end of the final coda and I think that was a masterful addition to the novel.

I always wondered where they got all of the replacement in this book on Star Trek and this book is fun, thoughtful, and has a great ending. The Coda are wonderful, especially number three and great read and again, how could I have not known of John Scalzi in my fifty four years of reading science fiction. Fortunately, a side effect, is that I now have a bunch of books to binge through.

I had mistakenly thought that John Scalzi wrote only military science fiction, a sub genre not to my tastes. Since this book was on sale, and the description of a ship where the new crew members keep dying was intriguing to me, I purchased it. The novel is clever and humorous, with elements of parody and metaphysics, as an old Star Trek fan, I found it enjoyable. I mostly listened to the book as an audio book, and Will Wheaton did a good job of narrating.

This shirt has special importance as I am just now finishing the audio edition of Red Shirts of John Scalzi, which is narrated by Will Wheaton. The novel has been nominated for one of most prestigious awards in science fiction that the Hugo Award for Best Novel and the author is an excellent writer. With a fusion of influences from Star Trek to Heinlein, he is a funny, original, entertaining, and deftly skilled writer of some of the best science fiction being published today. He is releasing his latest novel, The Human Division, as a multiple part series of episodes released via Kindle each week on Tuesday. I am also reading those and enjoying them immensely and check out my Good Reads page for more information and mini reviews.

Has to be the strangest book I have ever read, too be honest there were times I was gonna just stop reading it and It was lunacy. But, not being the sort to quit a book, I continued and I am glad I did and this story is even harder to describe, let alone recommend, but recommend it I will. For adults only, to be sure, but not for the usual reasons and it is not sex, or violence, but the kind of mind bending nature of it. Kids just will not get it because they have not lived long enough to experience the frustration of needing to find direction in their lives before it is too late. And it is never too late unless your dead, all I can say is, read it for yourself and see if it inspires you as it did me, be patient, and try to be introspective from time to time while reading it and you will not be sorry.

This book is hilarious and I love it, a great way to break into writings of John Scalzi and I first read this book and loved it. I was always told Old Mans War by the same author was good but it did not interest me but after reading this book and seeing how well John Scalzi writes and how funny he is while remaining somewhat serious or on topic and realistic. I am now five books into the Old Man War series and loving every second of it and I have also read his Android Dream book and it too was very good. If you like this book, try the other books of Scalzi, this book is a great icebreaker.

I enjoyed listening to this story and will Wheaton gave voice to the Chad in this novel and I did not hear the constant he said, she said, throughout this novel like I did in the Lock In. It was distracting and my high school English teacher would have revisions to suggest but I am wondering if this is a trademark writing style like the poet who did not use capitalization. Still Red shirts hits all my nerd points with the close to Star Trek story.