#92. Age of Ambition: Chasing Fortune, Truth, and Faith in the New China
#Evan Osnos
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Age-Ambition-Chasing-Fortune-Truth/dp/0374535272/ref=sr_1_41?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-41

The book is written as if the author is trying to get it through the communist party censors and he circles around issues that might be perceived as shaming the Chinese. He leads readers to his conclusions without spelling them out, but consequently the conclusions can not be nuanced with the full potential of the authors extensive experience in China. Maybe that is the point, that the Chinese have to communicate at multiple levels to survive the scrutiny of the party.

This book is interesting in so far as it gives insight into Chinese culture and some of the more successful and not so people in modern China. It is insightful, but rambles around from story to story and I did enjoy it, but felt disappointed by a lack of conclusion. This book does not really solve anything and left me with little more than a few good stories and some more understanding of key people in modern culture or society of China. I was hoping for a book that gives insight into why China is the way it is and what it may be like in five years and this book gives you some of that, but not enough in my opinion.

This book would make a good introduction for someone who does not know much about China and it is beautifully written, nuanced and focused on interesting individuals rather than attempting too many generalized judgments. But if you do know something about China or, frankly, have read newspapers diligently over the past five years, you will not find much new here. The main characters the author describes and has met are well known, indeed, the book is most interesting when the author describes his neighbors and other ordinary Chinese he meets. The theme running through the book, aspiration versus authoritarianism, is well delineated but you will not find many new insights. That is, perhaps, always the problem with any book that tries to summarize a nation in four hundred pages, for example, the Italians, the French. If you have some rudimentary knowledge of China, I would rather suggest books by Peter Hessler or Leslie Chang or, for something more specialist, Michael Pettis on the economy, Henry Kissinger on foreign policy, and James Fallows, the China Airborne, or Paul Midler, poorly Made in China on business.

I worked in China for one summer in college and I have traveled there three times since and I was hoping for a book that would entertain me and explain the rapid changes in China I have witnessed firsthand. This book is just too boring and fragmented to accomplish the task and I regularly finish books in a day, but I just got tired of reading this one. Also, because there is not a real chronological order to the book it feels more like a collection of vignettes about China from the last thirty years, some more interesting than others. In the end this book just did not bring the level of insight or entertainment I was expecting.

So this book was pretty good, but it dragged on for way too long and it essentially was formatted in a manner that resembled a compilation of non fiction short stories that the author either uncovered from research or from interviews. The content of the book was very good and thorough, but I think there is an issue with the delivery. After the first few stories, I started getting really bored and I just wanted to be finished with the whole thing. There was not a unifying plot to push the book along other than it was all about China. Stories jumped around from business, to environment, to economics, to journalism and I do not even remember what happened in the beginning of the book because it pretty much had nothing to do with the stories at the end. I know it must be difficult to actually write a book on the whole developing country of China and have it all link up somehow, but yeah it did not keep my attention as one solid piece of work.

The stories in the book are nothing new to me as a Chinese and I found some of the stories not objective and comprehensive enough. For example, the story about the Chinese media reporting a public rental apartment in Beijing costs unbelievable low rents. I am a media practitioner in China and my colleagues went to investigate the case and proved the story true, but after all it is a good book for non Chinese who want to know more about the country.

I had high hopes for this book, having read and listened to Evan Osnos on China in the past and the title of the book is misleading. This book is not stories of ordinary Chinese chasing their dreams in an age of ambition, but a Who is Who of famous Chinese dissidents, and people on the other extreme of the Chinese political spectrum. The stories became repetitive, fast and I was bored half way through the book. The book would have been interesting with more stories like Michael of Crazy English, and Lin Yifu, who swam across from Taiwan, but it has too much political bent for my taste.

This book gears towards mild sensationalism and tends to pander towards American notions of identity, freedom, and individualism. Not really about the age of ambition but rather about how through certain individual high profile cases the notion of individualism should be favored over collectivism. If taken the right way, these cases should lead the reader to question where this boundary is and I think that is what the book should have aimed to do instead.

Indeed, our eyes, ears, noses and other senses shape how and what we view, process, interpret, replay in our minds and then retell them and how we retell them depend upon how we perceive the real and imagined biases, expectations and reactions of our audiences. This book too went through all of that and then some, however, as I noted in the beginning, I highly recommend this book to readers who are interested in understanding China in all of its glories, limitations and failures. In the humble opinion of this reviewer, who has been a novice student of geopolitical events since my days in college, I found this book heavily peppered very useful insights, here is one illustrative example.

While there is nothing novel in this book about China, The narratives of the author provoke reflection about which form of governance is most suitable for not only China, but also the US, nations in the Middle East, and the rest of the world. The deeply polarized and nearly paralyzed Washington Establishment, with its insanely lucrative revolving doors, really does not inspire any rational Chinese leader to imitate the US system. The tragic events and tensions in Ferguson, the author make one rethink about the way of life in the US and whether Chinese citizens would be better off if China were to adopt the US model of democracy.