#93. Redeployment
#Phil Klay
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Redeployment-Phil-Klay/dp/0143126822/ref=sr_1_43?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-43

This is a collection of short stories and all but one of the stories are first person accounts of a soldier experience during or after deployment in Iraq. Every single story is good and every single story made me think and they are quick to read, but not easy to read. There are accounts of retrieving bodies, of devising insults to shout at insurgents in order to get them to run out into the open, of killing, of casualties, of veterans struggling with civilian life. In fiction and movies, war often has an escapist, heroic, romantic aspect. In contrast, redeployment shows war as grim rather than glorious. Both the narrators and the Iraq war are shown as flawed. Against that backdrop, there are moments when the bonds between soldiers stand out as redemptive and this is a very good book.

Like another reviewer, I also did not realize this was a book of short stories at first. But as time went on, I liked that I was able to get so many different perspectives of the experiences of those who served in Iraq. My son was in the army, so at times I felt like I could hear him talking about that time. The train of thought of the characters was completely realistic. I think it helped me understand him a little better by reading the experiences of the characters of others who also served. The acronyms made the writing realistic and this is the way they actually talk and you learn what they mean from the context if you do not know already. Read this book if you want to understand the veterans who return from this war and what they have had to deal with.

This book tells it like it is and reveals that our young men and women do not always know what they have signed up for when they join the military. It is not like a video game and it is not like the movies and they see things and have to do things that they have never thought of before, but will haunt them forever. The various stories told show what it is like to be deployed, away from family and friends, to be afraid for oneself and those one has befriended, to be injured physically and mentally. And how the lives of our soldiers are changed forever by war and their participation in it and I think this book should be required reading for all and perhaps we, as a country, would be less likely to become involved in wars simply because we have no skin in the game. Important to see how war impacts those who fight it and those who wait for them to return.

I probably should not have read this book, but it has great reviews and promoted as fiction to make believe and I am always looking for military books by new authors, especially those who have served overseas recently. I had no idea it would stimulate the first serious nightmare I have had in years. It was not just the artfully crafted stories but the subliminal tripwires that rekindled events from my Vietnam experience, the casualties, the lost friends, the noise, the confusion, the smells, all the suppressed memories of the close fight. I can not imagine the author writing with this effect on old fossils in mind. I thought I had put behind me the question asked by so many bloodied old vets that why were so many killed or maimed around me, yet I escaped and now I know the question still haunts and probably always will.

I did not know what to expect as I started reading this book, a full story of one soldiers time to Iraq and back, a redeployment, however, the author chose to tell multiple stories from several different angles. I enjoyed his writing but felt he left too much to the reader to understand with military jargon, some specific to the Marine Corps, and that he missed an opportunity to explain some of the Iraqi culture and how they perceived things. I was a hospital based medical health care provider, so do not have the experience of outside the wire infantry but could relate to his stories in regards to the soldiers and their medical treatment. I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to hear what thousands of young Americans went through serving their country.

Former book of this author is a series of short vignettes used to describe different aspects of a military member experience in the last decade, plus of constant war. The author in particular focuses on reintegration of the military service member back into the civilian world. Some of most affecting stories of the author, including a Muslim vet and his coreligionist at a university, a vet living with the consequences of licking with horrific injuries, are among the best fiction I have read recently. This book is fantastic, and deserves to win each award it has been nominated for and I highly recommend.

Whether you think the war in Iraq was a mistake or necessary is irrelevant when you read this book. No politics here, you are offered peeks into the personal experiences of soldiers, mostly Marines, during the war and afterward. The writing is crisp and direct and feels genuine and if profanity offends you, try to get past that so you can inhabit these characters. Some are heroic, some are flawed, but there is humanity in them all.

I am about two third of the way through this amazing piece of literature and it is the first book in fifteen years I have been compelled to go out and buy additional copies for family and friends. I will simply summarize here, no spoilers, disturbing, unplugging, exciting, thoughtful, depressing and overwhelming wrapped in a realism that I can not ignore. I was not in Iraq well after my time in service and I was not a Marine but this feels like the truth with every biting sentence and you have to read it, but I cried for many many times.

At times this book was very hard to read, simply because my husband was in the Marine Corps and deployed to Fallujah at the beginning of the Iraq war and the language, repertoire, acronyms, everything was spot on. Two other books it was compared to in a review were The Yellow Birds and Long Walk Home of Billy Lynn. I read both of those too, and while thematically this book is along the same lines, I would have to say it is completely different. Every story tugged at my heart in some way and the realism blew me away and this book should be required reading.

Easy to read, and very powerful and each chapter is a short story, told in the first person of a veteran. There is no happy ending, just truth and I got the book because I am working with veterans, and I wanted to know what deployment was like. Now I understand why it is so difficult for our vets to assimilate into civilian life, and why they never forget. Each night, I read one chapter and just one. I can not read more, because the story that the author tells is heart wrenching and causes me to pause and think. I bought the book because it won the National Book Award and I am reading it because it is easy to read, and tells the story of deployment through the voices of different veterans.