#94. Veronica Mars (2): An Original Mystery by Rob Thomas: Mr. Kiss and Tell
#Rob Thomas
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Veronica-Mars-Original-Mystery-Thomas/dp/080417072X/ref=sr_1_42?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632571&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-42

The dialogue works, but there are a number of problems with the whole post series Veronica Mars and I know fans loved Veronica and Logan together, but they still fail to work. The entire relationship feels like a fantasy in Veronica head and there is no depth, no meaning, just Logan there which perfect, Logan gone, meaning nothing. The story makes a fine one hour episode, but the obsession with dragging back old characters from the TV show makes me more aware that these novels are a franchise extender, rather than good books. Overall, as a fan, these are okay, no more, no less.

I thought I would absolutely love this book given my love for the TV series and movie, but sadly it just did not cut it for me. Veronica Mars just is not meant to be a book and as another reviewer mentioned, the book was written too much like a script. All I kept thinking while reading it was that there was way too much detail in describing elements not really essential to the scene. I was also disappointed that Logan only made a few brief appearances and do I intend to read the next book but only because I am hopeful Logan will be more involved.

I honestly thought that this book was going to be cheesy and over rated, not because I did not like the movie, but because I did not quite know how they were going to be able to take the amazing of Veronica Mars and turn it into a book. My initial reaction, however, was that it was really good and I liked it and it was by no means an epic literary masterpiece, but it stayed true to the series and the characters were true to who they were in the show. The story, which was written by the original Veronica Mars creator, Rob Thomas along with author Jennifer Graham, had a few unexpected twists and turns that kept me guessing and maybe I am just not a great reader but I thought they were good twists.

A nice addition to the Veronica Mars canon, since I am assuming we treat it as following the characters stories with input from Rob Thomas. Taking place soon after the movie, it spring break in Neptune and Veronica is hired to find two missing coeds. Veronica is still dealing with the consequences of her decision to stay in Neptune, and I think that is handled nicely and the mystery, really two, is okay.

I was disappointed in this and the mystery is okay but the writing lacks the wit and charm that we have come to expect from these characters. Not enough Logan that he is off at sea and I thought some of the principal characters acted out of character a few times. Overall, I did not think this attempt added much of value to the Veronica Mars canon and it was not bad but that is not the standard we Marshmallows are used to.

I am very disappointed in the content of this book, I opened it expecting something remotely like the first book and was utterly disappointed. It felt less like I was reading a Veronica Mars mystery and more like I was reading a dime novel mystery that happened to have some characters from Veronica Mars. One of the things I really liked about the TV show was its ability to have such intense themes like rape be prominent. It was a real breakthrough in story telling and TV the relationships were so real in fact Veronica and Keith have been my favorite fictional parent and child duo for years. But while reading this book it felt like there was a heavy reliance on violent, nauseating crime to hold interest. The mystery was boring, I had little to no feelings for the characters involved and it was highly predictable. There were several scenes that attempted at emotional but instead felt more awkward and hard to read. It seems to me that there is no room for character development, all of them are already full grown adults with mature attitudes. Overall I am uninterested in reading the next book if they make one unless they write a well thought out plot with actual character development and whatever ingredient that is usually there that makes Veronica Mars so enjoyable.

Nothing inherently wrong with this novel, it is just somewhat of a paint by numbers thriller. It helps that the setting is familiar, but the problem is that none of fun characters are involved with the story line whatsoever that Logan is in Iraq, Keith is recovering from an injury, Duncan is nowhere to be found, Weevil is only in a chapter, Wallace is just, kind of there. You know what I mean, actually, the stakes are artificially pumped by convenient Mexican cartel heirs being suspects in the case, but otherwise it merely is a Raymond Chandler novel without the enticing first person narration. I am sure there was a lot of red tape on these characters and that Jennifer Graham did the best she could with them, but it dose not have the personality it should have.

I love the Veronica Mars TV series, but the book and movie felt very lacking to me and everytime a character was mentioned in the book I felt like it was only to connect the story to the TV show. Duncan is even mentioned at one point, without any explanation of who Duncan is and it says something about the mother of Duncan. If a non Veronica fan picked this book up, they would have no idea who Duncan was. Another issue I had was that the great chemistry of the show was lacking that Veronica and Logan seemed to have very boring Skype conversations. Wallace did not seem like himself, and I have a hard time picturing Mac quitting a successful job that actually paid her bills without a backup plan that made more money, also speaking of Back Up, what happened to the dog.

Read no further if you are not a fan, if you are, then you should know it started with two stars just because it was Rob Thomas and had Mac. As stand alone book, I would not have finished this, our heroine was not herself, and neither was anyone else. These are our characters all grown up, all grown up and Ronnie had Mac hanging at the office like it was a club house and all the excellent voice overs were missing because it was in third person. Logan was the most adult character and I think it was because he was not really there, that being said, I did feel like I was back in Neptune, thanks for that, Rob. I can not say that enough.

As long as they put these books out I will probably read them just to be back in the Veronica verse but I do not love them. For reasons I can not quite articulate they do not totally work for me, maybe because the books try too hard to tie into previous events and existing characters instead of taking advantage of the freedom to expand. Maybe the authors just can not capture the essence of Veronica or the tone of the show on the printed page. I also just could not get invested in the plot, maybe because it was another rape plot which has been a constant theme and perhaps an overdone one by now, or maybe the plot just was not compelling if the identifying of elements were removed.