#99. Beautiful Redemption: A Novel (The Maddox Brothers Series) (Volume 2)
#Jamie McGuire
#URL:https://www.amazon.com/Beautiful-Redemption-Novel-Maddox-Brothers/dp/1502541858/ref=sr_1_54?fst=as%3Aoff&qid=1556632694&refinements=p_n_feature_browse-bin%3A2656022011&rnid=618072011&s=books&sr=1-54

What a roller coaster ride, this book definitely lives up to its name and I do not know of any other author who can blend romance, humor, action, and devastation into one book and it come out this perfectly. Jamie has a unique creative talent that does exactly that, if you had any doubts about Thomas from reading Beautiful Oblivion, this book will completely change your mind. Too bad there are only five Maddox brothers to go around, every girl needs a Maddox in their lives and I can not wait to read about the other brothers.

This book hangover from the Maddox brothers and you actually love you to pieces. Another amazing read from Jamie about the hot Maddox brothers, they both are both Thomas and Liis have scars from their pasts from apparently loving others. I love how the story of Travis and Abby tied in, and made so many pieces fall into place, especially, as they traveled as a couple to the wedding. They both have private affairs to deal with or let go of, but they are also both married to their jobs. No matter what though they are matching scars and I can not wait for more from Jamie and Maddox Brothers.

Let me start off by saying that Jamie McGuire is a genius and I have read and reread every book in this series, numerous times. I have falling head over heels in love with these Maddox boys and I have hated them equally. Trav was my absolute favorite, until Thomas showed up and he is a control freak, sexy, mean and dangerous and Jamie brings you into the story, she makes you feel the raw emotions she creates. You will fall in love with the characters and find yourself with a new book boyfriend after the first chapter.

I am truly shocked to read some of the other reviews by people who were disappointed with this book and I loved it, even if it was from Liis point of view, it still showed that Thomas could love someone. It did seem like it jumped around quite a bit more than the other books but I still liked this one. I think Thomas showed Liis how much he loved her by jumping in front of her to protect her toward the end. I still love this family and cannot wait to read more and I would like to see any further books from a closer point of view, such as the Maddox brothers or friends, or at least dual.

I am a huge Maddox Brother fan and Travis will always be my first but Thomas is the man and he was super sexy, confident and deliciously masculine right from the beginning. He will melt your heart, make you swoon and get under your skin just like a Maddox Brother does. However Jamie really steps it up in this book and Thomas delivers like no other and he is definitely my top Maddox and loved it.

I really did enjoy this book and Jamie McGuire is one of my favorite authors and she won me over yet again. I love learning more about Thomas and his life and I love the bond that the brothers have, even when they hate each other. I wish that this book would have gone on longer because I wanted more of Liis and Thomas, but knowing they got their happy ending totally made my day and loved it and will definitely be recommending this book to my friends.

You will fall in love with Liis and Thomas and I have been looking forward to this book ever since Beautiful Disaster, and I was not disappointed. The chemistry between Liis and Thomas is amazing and Thomas has spent his life always taking care of his brothers and has this secret he has been hiding from his family since he moved away from their hometown. He has to let his guard down, however, in order to save his youngest brother and Liis has this intense need to prove to the world that she is fierce and independent and has the inspiration to rise in rank in the FBI. After a night neither of them will forget, things change for the both of them, and they have to face their past in order to proceed with their future. This book was amazing and the side characters were definitely an added touch to the brilliance of this book, along with the glance into the lives of the other Maddox brothers. Excellent work, Jamie McGuire, I can not wait for the next Maddox novel.

I did not read the first book in the series and this book was on special offer and I really think to love this book you would have needed to read the first book. While the author tried really hard to fill you in on what you were missing, the fact that the key conflict of Thomas was tied up in something off camera was really off putting. Liis was a little hard to warm up to because she emotionally distant, without any background trauma to suggest why that happened, so it was hard to figure out why Thomas was the one to break through her barriers and if you park those two things aside, this was a great read.

I am starting to love this series, each book is about a Maddox brother and the plots are all unique. This particular book has elements of Beautiful Disaster, Beautiful Oblivion, and this book, Beautiful Redemption and I like how all the stories have their own plot, yet have a continual plot weaved through it. Thomas Maddox is just as awesome as the other brothers, powerful and his presence demanding, yet has a soft spot for women he cares about and he is a tortured soul with an interest in the newest staff member. Liss does not do love, or have interest in relationships for that matter and she has married to her job, determined to move up the ranks. When a chance encounter sets into motion a chain of events neither of them expected, the struggle is on and this book gets five glittery stars for being another great Maddox brothers story.

I have to say that I was really nervous about this book and I was kinda mad at Thomas at the end of Beautiful Oblivion, however, I quickly fell in love with him. There is no one like a Maddox boy, you can not help but fall in love with them and each one is different yet they way they love is exactly the same and that is with everything they have. If you find yourself on the receiving end of that love, you are a lucky lucky woman and this story of Thomas and Liis was just so emotional, and was amazing to read. So emotional and powerful, it truly takes a talent like Jamie McGuire to make readers feel every emotion written, to cry along with the characters, to stop breathing and end up with smiles that hurt your face when the book is over. This book was fantastic and gives you all that you were hoping to find within the pages of a Maddox the story of a boy and you will fall in love again and how could you not.