I love this book, which is quickly becoming one of my all time favorites, but this is definitely not the uncut version. Since I was required to red the uncut version, I did some research to ensure this kindle version was right, and it definitely is not. I had to drive all over town to find what I needed. Many of the deep philosophical concepts Heinlein included in his novel are simply missing, or abbreviated to the point of near invisibility, in the edited version. I had been wondering what all the fuss was about, until I retread the first five or six chapters in the uncut copy. This is truly a marvelous novel, if you read the right one. I bought this book because I have a friend at work that this is his favorite book of all time. I now have tried two times to read it. The first time I got thirty three percent through it, put it down from boredom and then now over a year later I decided to try to read it again. I started a the beginning once again, refreshing my memory on the book and now have read sixty six percent and I can not read any more of it. I understand this was written many years ago and so some of the concepts would be dated that was not the problem. Life is too short and there truly are fantastic reads out there. My thoughts on this book is that the two times I tried to read it, was a complete waste of my time. I am giving this only one star due to false advertising. Please do not be fooled out of your money. I have owned the paperback copy of the uncut edition for years and bought this version to have it in my kindle library. I ended up returning it severely disappointed. Save your money and buy the actual uncut edition in paperback, it is an exceedingly richer read. I know it is a classic, and I read it forty some years ago and loved it and liked it less this time around. Jubal, who is in many ways the central character is just an insufferable cliche. I guess I thought he was wise when I was nineteen but he is annoying now. The female characters are mostly his harem it seems. The religiosity are the core of the story seems pretty shallow, very the love child feeling at sixties. Seems like a lot of adolescent male fantasy here, I do not think this one stands the test of time. I am not one to quit a book once I start it, so I had to force myself to finish the stupid thing. I am so happy I can look forward to my evening reading again, sorry to disappoint, but the truth is good. The novel written by this author avoids many of the tropes that I dislike about science fiction, the weird names, the focus on the strange science, lengthy descriptions of strange technology, robots, and weapons, planets with multiple suns, odd violations of the rules of physics, and the lack of any character development or realistic human interaction. 