I do not know, maybe it is my own fault for not liking this book more, because I went into it expecting something else. The synopsis of this book made me think this would be an epic love story, but it really was not. Moses sees dead people, Georgia is naive and a doormat for him, Moses goes away for sever years, Georgia has Eli, Moses comes back. Someone is killing girls and it felt more like a paranormal mystery than anything. The writing is beautiful, and I felt real heartache about Eli but I never felt that Moses was really invested in Georgia, and I felt she was too quickly forgiving of Moses. And that is just not my kind of love story. This is the first Amy Harmon book I have read that I discovered another of her books, Making Faces, in my wish list, but I am not sure if I want to waste valuable reading time just to be disappointed in another lackluster romance. Life is so short, and my book list is very long. But even as my least favorite by this author, I still have to respect the intellect and creativity. I found the book to be repetitive where I lost interest during parts of the story. The author tried to create a complicated,troubled young man who could not connect with another human being, leaving others in turmoil and sadness. And then he came back and was cured by one event. The main character lacked a real life, it was too extreme, and so I did not connect. So, I did not love this book. It was good but I felt like quite a bit was glossed over. For example, rather than say Moses was black, she talks about his light eyes and dark skin for three chapters. Eventually, we learn his father was black, and considering Georgia is one of four girls in town being a black kid was pretty significant. Then when they have sex, you do not actually know they did until Georgia is pregnant. Also, this is kind of paranormal in a sixth Sense and I see deaf people kind of way. I loved the book From Sand And Ash of Amy Harmon but I did not like this book as well. I will read some of her other books before deciding that my first read was her best. Moses for sure was a very unusual person. Not sure that what he was able to do was an asset for him or a curse. This story was repetitive and dragged on longer than necessary, but the writing, in some parts of the book, was pretty good. The attempt of the author at capturing the essence of troubled soul did not come across for me. He was too complex a character, and I did not feel that I got to know him. His psychic abilities were somewhat far fetched for my liking, and I quickly lost interest when he began seeing dead people. 