In every book someone is out to kill Stephanie Plum, and no exception here, but here, there are three. An FTA she catches and brings in wants to run her down with her car the same way the FTA did to her own husband. The deranged brother of a man Stephanie shot and killed early in her bounty hunting career plans to kill her for his revenge. And a serial killer is killing people and dumping their bodies with notes attached that say for Stephanie. In the meantime, the love life of Stephanie shifts into high gear as things continue to steam with both Morelli and Ranger, while the mom of Stephanie starts to push an old high school classmate at her. Every book seems to get funnier and funnier, a great break from books that are always so serious. If you need to laugh out loud occasionally while you are reading a book, you need to read the Stephanie Plum series by this author. I especially enjoy the grandmother of Stephanie and the grandmother is absolutely a hoot, thus I like all of the characters as well. This series is absolutely fun and I love it. I think any reader of any type of literature would have to like this series, too. Have just finished reading books one to twenty of this series. Stephen is an accident waiting to happen, and it is a good thing she has two hot boyfriends to call on to rescue the situation. She is a bail bond enforcer, but she never has her gun and it is tucked away in the cookie jar. Her favorite weapon is a can of hair spray. I personally enjoyed the first six books. Once you meet Sally, you want Sally to appear more often, but Lula is stepping at regular side kick, but there is nothing regular about Lula. There are laugh out loud moments in every book. So get your Apple and order the first book, and I can guarantee you will not stop at one book, enjoy. Okay, yes, we would all like to see Stephanie pick a guy but where is the fun in that. Yes, they are predictable at times, so what, these books are written for entertainment. Would anyone really go into the worst part of Trenton alone, of course not. These books are supposed to be written as light entertainment. I like them and as long as the author continues to write them, I will continue to read them. Keep bouncing between the two guys Stephanie, it is fun. Finally, I have completed my collection of the Stephanie Plum series in hardcover. Seventeen arrived in two days as promised, thanks to Amazon Prime, and in excellent condition. 