I do not really know where to begin and I loved the first two books, I tore through them in a day. The third one was still good but like everyone else has said, such a disappointing end. I am actually shocked that she wrote this, thought it was a good ending, editors saw it and thought it was okay. Two books worth of tension and questions are answered in two pages. Nope, just wraps up way too neatly which is to say, not neatly at all, very disappointed. The weakest of the trilogy and this book provides an unsatisfactory conclusion to the story. You start getting a bit of awkward dialogue in this book, but it really goes to another level in the last two chapters which was a shame. It was okay, but in the end a letdown after reading the first book. I feel like this story could have been great had it had a more thought out ending. End of Days is the conclusion to the angel fall trilogy. I finished reading this book in a day. End of Days begins right where World After left off. This book was the perfect combination of post apocalyptic, action, and adventure. I loved how strong our heroine Penryn is and I love Penryn and Raffe together. I am glad that they got to spend a lot of time together in this book. There were things that I wish had been touched on more, like the of madness of mom of Penryn, but overall I think this book did a decent job of wrapping up the trilogy. I can not wait to see what else comes from the author. Great story, you need to read the first two books before reading this one. Not finished with this book yet, so I am very curious how it all turns out and I finished this book. As others have mentioned, I was quite disappointed with the ending. Might as well have ended it like they all lived happily ever after the end, boring and disappointing. I lowered my initial star rating from five to three because of the quick ending. I had such high hopes for this long awaited last book, but it fell short for me. The plot was cheesy and too fantastical. The talent show scene ruined the book for me. While I did appreciate the sexual tension between Penryn and Raffe at the beginning of the book, it became repetitive. Then the magic was lost. I can keep going and I was glad the ending was happy but I felt Susan rushed a little. 