This is the second book in the series and contains the prequel of Pham Nuwen adventures that lead up to his being found in the first novel. The first novel gave us a species of alien that were a race of collective beings or intelligence. This one turns the bug war theme on its head and shows us a sympathetic species of arachnids. This species is being watched by group of Queng Ho and an antagonistic rival, the Emergent with the hopes the arachnids will develop the technology that will save the humans and allow them to go home. Spanning over forty years of objective time, the author spins one of the most imaginative science fiction stories I have ever encountered. We have vivid description of the advancing of an alien civilization, we have the back history of the Queng Ho and Pham Nuwen and the conflict between space faring cultures. The author is a mind boggling visionary. This a typical Vinge book in that it is full of interesting concepts and characters, but the first seventy five percent of this chewy, nutritious meal of a book requires that the reader literally slog through boredom and or apathy for most of the buildup to the end. I found myself often exiting my Kindle app to check Facebook or Twitter through the first half of the book because I felt so under stimulated. That said, there is a whirlwind of twists and fruition of plans that will keep you glued to the last quarter of the book. This is probably one of the greatest plotted novels in all of science fiction, even of fiction in general. Only the author could bring humanity to spiders on a far away world. The book is gripping from beginning to end, spanning thousands of years in narrative. There are dozens of threads going on throughout the book and the author manages to keep them all clear and progressing to a very satisfying conclusion. If you have not read this book, you are missing out on the best science fiction has to offer, and one hell of an author. I do recommend reading the first book in this series first. The character is one of the best ever in science fiction and I will not say who it is. I have had this book in my collection since it was first published, but only got around to reading it now. I also love how the alien race of Spiders is shown to us through a sepia lens of mapping them to our own twentieth century, and then that lens explained in the course of the book to be more than just narrative device. Beyond that lens, we realize the Spiders really are alien, but not so much that they can not be understood. Some people may consider this somewhat dated science fiction. I read it years ago from the library and recently bought it for my Kindle to read again. Also, the price is a little high for an older book in my opinion. However, after several pretty below average selections from Amazon I decided to give it a try. This is at least on my top book list and it is long and maybe slow at some points but I still think it is fantastic. While I really enjoyed a Fire Upon the Deep, A Deepness in the Sky was even better. If you love the likes of the Hyperion and Dune series, do not hesitate. If you are new to science fiction, this is a great place to start as well. 