I am surprised by how many great reviews this book has. I found it to be excruciatingly slow moving. The story and the characters never grabbed me. There was no one I cared enough about to make me want to continue reading. I got through about eighty percent of the story and then just started skimming to the end. As for the humor that was mentioned in previous reviews, it was much too subtle for me to enjoy. On the positive side, it did educate me a bit on Indian British history. This book was very slow giving the what happened with the siege and what after the siege and more than enough before to understand the why. It was educational from the standpoint of seeing how governments or organizations can go into other countries and think that by dismissing the if the native cultural works, immediately think that their way should be welcomed and make life better. It seems humans never learn from history but actually think they are doing it differently and better. Since time began we are still trying to have power and wealth and the cost of others. Set in India during the days of the British East India Company, before British Government control, residents find themselves in retreat before a Sepoy mutiny. Holed up on the compound and in the official residence the cast of caricatures have to push themselves beyond their normal boundaries. The book is in four parts including part one establishes the cast and part two starts the fighting. It is an easy read but by part three and four you may feel like let us get to the conclusion. Excellent use of language, sins like a hydra, cut one off. The historical information and detail was interesting, but I found myself putting this book down often. I would pick it up again, but it was not riveting. That said, if you enjoy a sardonic style, you will enjoy this. Some of the descriptions of the people and activities are very humorous. The author uses sarcasm to poke fun at the colonial British. The story is fiction based on a conglomeration of historical events. The actual siege described takes place in a fictional town. I think that I would have enjoyed it more if it had been based on a true event. 