Being a forty year old in college and seeing all of the young college folks obsessing over smart phones and apps, I can totally emphasize with the two middle aged protagonists. Although Robert was a drama queen has been poet who thrives off of negative energy and Vaz is an old spook conspiring against the whole of global society with his own agenda, this book definitely allowed me to take part and visualize the strange worlds created by the Augmented Reality and tech suits of the new era. I have read some reviews stating that this is not one of his best works. I disagree with that assessment and it is certainly different but I think it is very much one of his best works. The near future is so well rendered and the characters are believable. The cloak and dagger elements are fun and he is at his most clever in some ways. I only wish the author would do a sequel. I love his other works and he is truly a visionary. This work stands on its own as a unique work in the authors catalog. If you are a fan of well written science fiction this is a must read. I really enjoyed reading this book. Its predictions around tablets and augmented reality that succeed them are spot on. Other interesting ones are around the world geopolitical alliances and the future work force. For instance, the rabbit character was way more interesting than the shallow and predictable Robert. The failure to act or close on the rabbit makes the story incomplete. I am a big fan of the work of Vinge, so I looked forward to this book with some excitement. My first impression is that Amazon is incorrect in calling this a Zones Of Thought book, as it does not seem to belong to the same universe of A Fire Upon the Deep and A Deepness In The Sky. While the main characters are interesting, most of the plot seems exist for the sole purpose of exploring computer technology a little more than twenty years from now. In the last third of the book, the author launches into a parallel story line that I think detracts from his overall narrative. I have been an avid science fiction reader since I discovered the masters in the late 1950. The future cultural settings remind me a lot of William Gibson and Neal Stephenson. The author is fairly conversant in computers and networking and really just takes virtual reality one technological step further. The world he constructs, I think, may be our future. The characters, for the most part, have some depth and the artificial intelligence that develops might exhibit some of the characteristics he imbues it with. The most compelling part of the novel is the projected cure for disease. 