The book for me was good but, not that good and for me this really is not a zombie book though it is interesting how the book is set years later and we see how they dealt with the uprising. I thought the book dragged and was quite boring sometimes since there was too much techno babble on every page. It was quite challenging to keep leafing through it. I must admit, if you skim you will not miss much. Georgia, the female lead, did you know she has an eye ailment, well you will after the hundredth time your told. What did I like, actually the blogs at the end of each chapter were very interesting and thoughtful. Maybe the whole book should have been that way. In terms of the end, very refreshing to be thrown a curve ball like that. I am sorry, I just can not read the sequels. I notice the second book is also over six hundred pages and I do not want to skim to get to the point. Overall this was a good read, being a fan of horror fiction and a writer of zombie fiction I would not define this book so much a Zombie novel as a survivalist novel with high political overtones. My biggest problem with the book is that the world the novel was set in seemed to often become an after thought. And even though the political drama was very interesting, it seemed to always be competing with the other story lines. Even the blog entries started out very strong and then seemed to die away such that they became lost in the fray. I will say though, if you are looking for a zombie story that pulls all the gore punches and goes so far as allow the very existence of the undead to be an afterthought, this book might be the book for you. It has good characters, the writing is strong, and adds the bonus of political intrigue. It is a really fun romp through the ideas of a post zombie modern world but you have to slog through a two dimensional main character and random rampant sexism so the author can create the most obnoxious not like those girls fantasy. I think the story was fairly interesting and I liked her world building. What I did not care for were her characters, they are pretty much all very flat. There is basically no difference between any of the characters, they are all one dimensional with no depth. There is no discernible difference between the two, most of the characters are like that, not enough variety in the characters. I kind of struggled through the book, I would read for twenty minutes, get bored and do something else. Maybe the book was aimed at the other market. There is a lot of repetition about blood tests, sensitive eyes etc that could have been omitted. 