I really, really wanted to love this story, after the previous three book, I waited patiently for the story of Chase to be revealed. While I admired the desire of Georgina or Chase or Anna to prove to not only herself but the ton that she was worth more than they thought of her simply because she was ruined, I could not help but feel that she was selfish and a bit vain. For someone who was so blase about his gossip rags making money from the troubles and tales of the ton, he was quite a bit of an ass. I guess his holier attitude just did not sit with me. I will continue to read books of this series as she is a great writer. And I could never figure out why the brother of heroine, a Duke, would bankroll the gaming hell of his sister. That made no sense at all to me and strained belief enough for me not to love this story as much as I expected to. I had been looking forward to the final book for the series about Chase. Good story line with abundant background on how and why she became what she was, but over and over again becomes repetitive. This story was not bad, though I enjoyed the first three in this series more. She knew he had secrets of his own yet still seemed to put most of the fault on herself. In the end it finally seems to dawn on them, but it should not have taken the whole book to come to that realization when they both knew the other was hiding something. I do not know that the author will ever top Nine Rules to Break When Romancing a Rake but she certainly did not with this book. After the book of Temple, which I did not care for at all, I was not sure if I would bother with Never Judge a Lady by Her Cover. I was never terribly invested in this series. But, it was Thanksgiving weekend, and I did have an afternoon free, so I got it. I liked Georgiana and it was interesting to find out what ever happened to the Duke of the sister of Leighton, and I liked Duncan. But the story was so predictable and so repetitive. Seriously, Georgiana would have a conversation about something with Temple, then repeat the whole thing with Duncan, or any number of the other male characters. The repetitiveness is mind boggling seems like an overbearing, jealous nut. The character is not convincingly strong or adept enough to pull off what the author gives her credit for. But it was repeated multiple times, so I guess it is supposed to be believable. It is too bad as this is a unique series with potentially good characters and Pipa is the best. That said, I have to admit that I am really disappointed with this book. Perhaps all of these months of waiting managed to build my expectations too high that I had imagined Chase to be brilliant. Second to none and ruthless, but in this book she strikes me as a whiny petulant child with a vindictive streak. I adored the tie ins between other books and this one along with subtle nod to issues in modern culture. That on its own made it interesting enough to keep reading. Unfortunately the sexual tension between Gorgianna and West felt tedious and dull. I ended up skipping much of their interludes. Overall, the random praise is that the description of pool was spot on. 