Joker had such a crush on Carissa all through high school. He also had such a horrible home life growing up. When he see Carissa stranded with her hill he stops to help her. Carissa does not recognize him but still feels a strong pull to him and she seeks him out. Joker tries to push her away but his attraction to her puts him over the edge. The former husband of Carissa puts himself in the middle and tries to win her back. The chemistry between these is explosive. I love how he takes care of Carissa and her son. The way they become a family is so heartwarming. Joker found his family in chaos and they are a club that makes him feel a sense of belonging. All of these books are so are great stories and I loved each one. Short bulb goes like this and Carson Steele is getting out. His life is crap thanks to his Dad Jefferson Steele. He beats him, scars him and everything else in between. Carissa gave Carson light but did not know it. He has always been in love with her and is grateful she was the last person he saw before heading out and getting out. Leaving would be the biggest mistake of his life. Returning after all these years and finding Chaos would be the best until Carissa. She is still in town and life has not been good to her. I will not write anymore, it is all there that everything in brilliant Kristen Ashley fashion. One of the biggest draws to her stories besides the obvious are the female characters. I love the fact that her women are curvy, strong but gentle, devoted and driven. Of course in some of the story lines those woman have had to crawl their way out of the dark and find their confidence but it was always with the love and complete devotion of a great man, a man who would stop at nothing to show her all her worth. Thank you for another spectacular Chaos novel. The even better news is that there is more to come. We get a preview of Walk Through Fire and of course it is going to be fantastic. Or equal first with Shy and Tabby that the author brings us two characters but she makes them seem so real with real life hardships and realistic human behaviors. Meaning, you will not find major misunderstandings that resolve at the end, no disrespect between the characters, no epiphanies followed by sudden resolved conflicts, and no push and pull drama. Just plain life happening and finding your one true love. The story was not rushed and I was able to spend time with the characters. I found myself having to close my Kindle several times while reading so that I can internalize what I just read. That is how powerful this read was for me. I can not wait for he next installment. Ride Steady will the our fourth book in the Chaos series. It is not necessary to read in order, but because there are steady couples from previous books and a turf war in the background, it may be easier to read in order for the sake of chronology, but again, not necessary. I imagine the same would have been applied if I would have read the series in order from the beginning. Typical of all of books of this author, this one told another over the top story about Carrie and Carson. There were a lot of different elements in this story, from second chance at love to good versus evil. And all of it written in the particular style of this author. It was a good, emotional read. I enjoyed watching as logical Carson or Joker evolved, allowing himself to leave his stoicism behind and welcome the love from everyone around him. And it was especially enjoyable reading about a community coming together to support a troubled mother. If only our society did that with all women who need it. 