I have mixed feelings about this book, on one hand, I like the idea surrounding this book and the reason why it was written in the first place. The writing style is just as good, however, I felt lost, confused, and a little let down that some of my questions went unanswered. The story does not end in a cliffhanger, but you will just have to read it yourself to determine if questions where answered or not. Overall, this book is a good book about a sad and lonely girl who is consumed by the world she lives in. This is not a love story, this is not a story where the ending will leave you feeling happy and satisfied. This is a dark story about revenge. It is a story about a girl who lives her life based on the circumstances in which she was brought up in. It is a story of a girl who turns into a woman who may or may not be delusional. But it is also a story about seeking revenge for the innocents who have been wronged in life. I am a huge fan of this author and I have read and loved every book she has written. The author is an automatic one click for me. This book has been sitting in my kindle since it was released and I should have left it there. It was pretty good in the beginning and then it drug on some in the middle but was still pretty good. Then at about eighty percent or so , it took a opposite degree turn. This book is just bad, so do not waste your money. I am still scratching my head over the whole Judah thing. I kept checking to see if I missed an entire chapter, I was so confused. She just became so one dimensional, maybe that was the point to show how bad experiences change people. The first half of the book was great, the rest not so much. I really wanted to give it two and half stars since that is exactly the way I feel about it. There were so many things that were said, and then changed throughout the story that I am not sure if they were mistakes in the writing or if it was supposed to be written like that to leave you guessing what is real and what is not. My husband asked why I had such a strange look on my face. So the author either congrats on succeeding in your evil genius plan to make me feel like I have lost it or slow down next time when you write and make a less confusing story. I honestly do not know what you were going for. Loved the tie in to other books of this author, note I suggest you read other books of this author first to truly appreciate those chapters. There is also that huge plot twist which I think added another element that I just could not connect with as it left everything feeling unresolved. I read reviews on this book and decided to try something different. I was not ready for this story yet I am not one to start a book and not finish it. If you want a different read and some weird read this might just be for you. This story is not the one I will recommend or read again and I am sorry that it just did not work for me. This was my first read from this author, most likely my last. When I read the blurb, I thought this sounds like a very interesting, dark read. However, this book jumped all over the place and I did not feel a good flow in the story at all. I did not feel a connection to any of the characters. 