How to describe, saying I loved this book is not enough, but any analysis I could offer would be pale. After I turned the last page I had to take a break from starting a new book for several days because all the samples I surveyed did not grab me like what I had just finished. Beyond the alternating stories, which dovetail very well, the words are beautifully selected, and never tedious. I really cared about the characters, and no one is pure protagonist or the antithesis, simply, Margaret Atwood is in a league of her own. It is no secret that Atwood has a way with words and is able to weave a complex story with complete ease, but she is also able to foster empathy for misunderstood characters. I just turned the last page of Blind Assassin of Margaret Atwood and Atwood expanded my heart and mind with this amazing and engrossing book. My heart is throbbing and my mind stretches into the lives and the future of the story that continues in the nowhere space of everywhere where great novels continue to unfold. I feel like my perceptions and appreciations of people I know and am yet to meet are deeper, more clear and more vivid. The reader is able to watch the lives of Laura and Iris unfold and watch them grow up and start to understand the world around them. In the beginning she just went along with what she was told and never went against anything, not even to protect her sister from Richard. She is the same, complacent character. Atwood is a tough minded woman and this book is about a tough minded woman, Iris Chase Griffin. The sections alternate between writing of Iris as an old woman, which is about both her present life and her memories, dated newspaper articles about her and other people in her life, and a science fiction novel called The Blind Assassin. The setting is Toronto and Port Ticonderoga, Canada of the thirties and forties and Iris is a delight to be with in her cranky dotage, and the book leaves one breathless with awe. Some of the literary devices are not fully revealed until the last third, and they were challenging to follow early on. But stick with it and you will be rewarded with fabulous writing and a thought provoking finish. Now back to my thrillers, but I will be looking for another book by this author soon. 