I have owned this book since it was first published and had been waiting years to purchase it for my Kindle. It is an enchanting mix of love, mystery and history, blended intentionally with poetry and short stories. This is a highly literary book, no wonder it won the Booker Prize. If you are a casual reader who likes to skim fairly superficial fiction, it will most likely not appeal to you. If, however, you enjoy settling in with a book and immersing yourself in wonderfully formed characters, and are willing to take a side trip with the poetry or short stories interspersed throughout, all of which are critical to the story itself, then this is the novel for you, love, love, love this book. I knew the plot and I knew this book to be rather important in the recent history of British literature, but I did not expect it to be that exciting, like a detective story proceeding into the labyrinth of human heart. La Motte and Ash are two marvelous characters, so peculiar and yet so universal in their discovery of love and reciprocal understanding. Byatt is very much precise in reconstructing the fictive poetry and prose of that century. And then the scholars, described as mediums obsessed with the living spirit of dead people and I kind of like very much that idea. What I really loved about this novel was its depth and scholarly presentation through letters, journal entries, historical comments, and the actual poetry of the characters. It is unlike many of the current novels that have a bare bones plot and character description. The language of Possession is lyrical and solid, complex and beautifully written. This is not an easy read, unless you are conversant in Victorian poetry and literature, and the classics. It has been compared to writings of Umberto Eco, but while it has some dense, erudite passages, it is not as difficult to read and this book is worth the effort. When my sister gave me this book and told me I had to read it, I was hesitant. I am not one for most romance novels, but the art on the cover intrigued me, once I began, I could not stop. 