I did not think it was possible to fall more in love with the character Ender and I think now I just find him more believable as his interesting approach to problem solving and cerebral outlook seems more appropriate on a thirty something year old than a six to twelve year old. Card writes about this new galactic community so beautifully so that you really care about each character he involves you with and there are quite a few and for the indigenous species that exist on the planet. By far one of my favorite books, and I think I would recommend this even if your are not that into science fiction because I would say this is more of an anthropological study than scientific. I loved every second reading this and was genuinely sad when it was over. Innovative and disturbing, Speaker is not as enjoyable as the first book of the series and the main character makes some remarkable observations about society, religion, and government. By placing the action on an alien planet, an author can say whatever he wants about our world, without fear of being sued, or attacked by the media, or the police. This is after all, one of the primary functions of science fiction and not to say that the planet is a thinly disguised Earth, by no means. Ender continues to deepen, and his computer lover Jane is remarkable, but so are the people he meets, and comes to love, on Lusitania, some of them humans. His universe is as vast as Asimov, with more believable characters, highly recommended. This book is, quite frankly, the best book I have read since it is courser the game of Ender and I believe it deserves more stars than I can give it. The book starts off with a somewhat slow prelude to the rising action, but by the end of the first chapter, this book will have you hooked. The book works perfectly as either a sequel or a standalone novel making it a great starting to the Ender quintet of books, and yet, continues the story of the original book perfectly. The characters are very deeply described, and falling in love with them is no hard task at all. My fascination with the little boy lost, the merciless military that created him and uses him for its purpose, his loving sister and hateful brother. The only criticism I have is that he picked the humans to be represented by Portuguese. That is money out of his pocket since I got through that difficulty I will continue the journey into his next books. It rounds out the story and the characters from that book and if you have been looking for Science Fiction where the alien race is really alien, this book is a must read. One of the best parts of this book is that the nature of the aliens is not just an interesting accessory to the story, it is vital to the plot. Speaker for the Dead displays a clear evolution in the writing of the author as the second book in The Ender Quartet. This continuation of the original story is every bit as griping as the first in the series, if not quite as exciting, more deeply involving for interest and attention of the readers. 