Oh my God, I wanted to like this book and I just can not and I resolve myself to getting through it and simply cannot read more than a few pages before finding some put off chore around the house I would rather tend to. The incessant use of pronouns left me constantly in doubt as to what character was speaking or was being spoken about and I gave up after reading half of the book. I know most of the reviews were positive, but I just did not get it. The frequent use of vague pronouns is just irritating, especially since the unclear pronouns appear when Cromwell is speaking to a character who shows up only briefly and the reader can not be familiar enough with character to realize who the author refers to. Besides being irritating, the writing breaks the immersion in the story and the use of very modern language also tends to break immersion. All of these annoyances could be set aside if only the book were more engaging and I read it for my book group and otherwise would probably not have finished it. I am wading through it and, hoping against hope, that bring up the bodies is less cumbersome, since I bought both. I have set this book aside now, after a little over two hundred pages and I may or may not go back to it. Luckily, I am familiar with the main players involved in the drama of King Henry and his obsession with Anne Bolelyn so I knew who was who, however, I often did not know who was speaking. It is always interesting to read of the intoxication, over the top era of the reign of Henry the eighth and his entertaining life with his first two queens. The thing about this book is it takes it from an entirely new vantage point and retells the well worn tale bringing it into a new light. It was not always easy to tell if the person speaking was Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Moore or Cardinal Wosley. A very skillful writer and devoted researcher messed up her book by writing an historic novel in the present tense. I set out to read this two years ago and abandoned it and the constant use of he for Cromwell, the main character, was confusing. The story was extremely slow moving, however, about four hundred pages to get Anne Boleyn installed as queen, and another two hundred plus to get rid of Thomas More. I stopped reading it about forty percent of the way through the book and that is very unusual for me and I also am knowledgeable about the time period and Henry eighth, but I could hardly follow it. 