Of the Mars Trilogy this by far the best because the characterizations and hard science makes this stand out and I do not know how well the author planned the sequels. The sequel science was okay but of course became more and more speculative and the author then used one plot device that ruined the rest of the series. Out of nowhere we suddenly had near immortal life spans and this allowed the same characters to live through the Terraforming changes. I must admit that I found the central love triangle a tiresome repetition of soap opera like dialogue, but the level of realism combined with the scope of the work is truly admirable. The author of Red Mars, Kim Stanley Robinson, clearly did the necessary homework to displace the reader from our natural environment and deposit us deep into the vast desert like terrain of Mars. The multicultural facets explored along the way, and their inclusion into the martian mindset, make this a work of science fiction artistry. While a bit drawn out, the perseverance reader will walk away from Red Mars with his head held high, a mouthful of Martian dust, and a deeper understanding of what it is to tackle a completely alien world and redefine it in only a way humans might. I bought the red or blue or Green Mars series when they were originally published. They are college age students and absolutely love them, as I did when they came out. The books are hard science based, with political and personal intrigue to make things interesting. The book focuses on a group of one hundred scientists who are very human. They do not all respond truthfully to the questions selecting them for the trip, for instance and they have egos, and they want to be on Mars, often for conflicting reasons. The purported story of the colonization of Mars and the first one hundred especially selected colonists were brilliant, but racked with political and social differences. These differences began to present themselves as they shuttled through space, why is it that our political views always divide us so. Same thought groups formed and pushed their agendas until finally chaos reined and a few of the original one hundred were left, now in their eighties. Escaping the corporations and corrupt earth government to hide in the ice cap and regroup, a very sophisticated read and one that makes you think. With the extent of geographical description, I wish I had a map of Mars to track allot of this. It is starting to lean to more than talk with a few possible intentional violent retaliations, just getting into that. There is no doubt this is a classic, a great science fiction story, but it took me a long time to plow through it. 