I guess I was expecting a lot more from this book and it was not bad but as not exciting until almost the end. I can see how a lot of people would give up or be bored by this book though. There are a lot of descriptions of the cities and of the people from each one. I think though he had to do that or I do not think anyone would really be able to understand how a city can be in a city and the people who live there can tell the difference between the two. Anyways it was a very interesting premise but the story just was not fast paced or interesting enough for me. I think it could have been better, for a type of detective novel with a bit of a weirdness of the city thrown in it was just okay. Mieville was trying to write a Borges premise in a style that is a mixture of Kafka and Dashiell Hammett. It is all there, the divided city, the oppressive Eastern European environment, the seedy hard boiled detective story. The author has to tie things off with a shady agency and a bevy of newly introduced characters in the last quarter of the book because it is just become too complex and crazy for one person to deal with. It becomes apparent at that point that all the events that went before did not exist to advance the plot but rather to fill out the setting. The premise to this novel is great, and it is a good crime novel wrapped up in a quasi science fiction or fantasy package, but the culmination of all that hard work of building a very complicated system kind of falls flat at the climax. The author must weave these elements of the story in with other more believable elements in such a way that the reader buys in and accepts the whole contrived reality. That did not happen in the city and the city and I could not buy into what seemed to me to be the unrealistic setting and the way the characters reacted to it. It seemed contrived and silly and the idea of unseeing was no more believable than if the population had been divided into those who would hop about on their left foot while others would hop on their right foot and they would ignore each other and wave with opposite arms. But I found the voice of a narrator to be annoyingly pseudo hard boiled, and the language stilted. Had a hard time keeping track of the characters, and finally realized that I just did not care about any of them. Beyond a couple describers that are given, you are free to imagine him as a robot or a pillow and you do not know anything about him as a person. Needless to say, character development is severely lacking so the whole thing falls flat. 