My biggest complaint is that there is no information on the order of the series and both series are interconnected and a continuous story. Frankly, if each is taken as a separate story, I would not rate it as high, however if the series is read in order, the character development is excellent and the back stories that are hinted at in each succeeding book, are understood by the reader, making the stories much more enjoyable. However, the advantage of this process for the author is that you end up purchasing all the books and then trying to figure out what the order should be by reading a chapter or two. Granted that the Fleet of Worlds series do have indicators as to Book one through Book five. Look, this is by far one of the best scientific fiction books ever, the book was published in October 1970, so it was written prior to the old times. It has by far one of the most originals ideas about a foreign world and grandiosity of engineering accomplishments, such is that this book generated a trilogy, due to its amazing story line. Some people do not like the book, I agree some parts seems to be over the place, however, the general idea and the narrative about Ringworld is captivating and fascinating. You will start depicting as you read and this effect of this book and it story line is what makes it so unique for me. The characters are well developed and complex and the main characters, two aliens and two humans are played against each other which makes for a fast paced and interesting read. The entire time I was reading this book I kept thinking to myself what an intriguing concept. It is just interesting and so very different from most science fiction books I have read before. The author really handles alien concepts in an alien way. At times you will relate or understand but more often you just go interesting. Outstanding book and even better than the original in my opinion and the plot makes sense and the twist in the end is interesting. The author is not the best writer out there, but his ideas are outstanding. Hard science fiction is hard to come by and this one is a classic. 