This started so well and I loved the interesting new world and many of the characters, but hated the ending, which was not an ending. The book builds this complex world filled with complex character then jettisons many of the characters abruptly for no reason. The sections with the drummers were awful back to using the bodies of women for the pleasure of men, except that they catch on fire, willingly or drugged, how banal. Overall, I was hugely disappointed and I kept reading, hoping it would get better but it did not and then it just ended as if the author was bored with the story. Was there even a plot line to follow and was there an editor involved at all. I found the start a bit slow, but hung on hoping for a payoff and it did payoff and was satisfying in the end. While he does a good job of offering a glimpse into the tech of the future, he babbles on and on and on far more than necessary. The book bounces around like crazy and most of the time I was left wondering who the main character was, what the plot was and why I should care. I powered through the book and it was not an easy task. Not coming anywhere close to being as good as the masterpiece Snow Crash nor the excellent Cryptonomicon of Stephenson. This is a book that is filled with some great ideas that never come together as a decent book. There are not any characters here worth caring about, there is a world that is too complex to bother paying attention to, and a climax that is intense but seems to come out of a separate book. I started reading Neal Stephenson with Cryptonomicon, read forward through The Baroque Cycle. Having run out of new material, I went back to read some of earlier work of this author. This is my least favorite Neal Stephenson book, but even a second rate Stephenson book bears some fascinating ideas. In the book, an ultra high technology manual for young ladies is created for the richest of grand daughters, and stolen for the tech from the daughter of the writer. Along the way, the poorest of the poor receives a copy and I did not enjoy the tracts of the writing of the manual, but these are easily enough to skip. The views of the futuristic China and the various clans designated to contain the world, we are breathtaking. I am a sucker for a trip to another world and Stephenson does this the best. Unless you are one of my sons, do not bother with Stephanson since there are too many good authors out there. If I could award two different ratings to those two halves, I would give five stars to the first and one star to the second. 