It is not like the book or author are in dire need of recognition since I believe many publications have already praised both and the best I can say is believe the hype. While I am no expert in classical studies, I know the history and myths fairly well and the author is just brilliant in weaving together various myths by following the tale of a relatively minor goddess and character in Greek mythology, well, after this book, Circe is a minor character no longer. Although woven together from a few main myths and a number of bits and pieces, her version of the life of Circe hangs together wonderfully. Circe is a very different character from Achilles but I grew fond of her and enjoyed her unique story and the references to events in the other book. However, the characterization is spot on and the depiction of Miller of her characters, both major and minor, will sadden you several times over. Otherwise, it seems best to divorce oneself from the feeling for the previous work and judge the new work on its own merits. I finished this book in less than one day while all else was ignored, read this, and let your imagination soar with hers. I loved this book and I felt as if Circe herself was sitting across from me, setting the record straight for me. I also really liked that this book has an index, with all of the gods, nymphs, demigods, and humans, it was absolutely essential. An absolute epic worthy of Homer himself, Circe has won my heart and I will never forget her, next on deck will be The Secret of Clouds by Alyson Richman. This book was stunningly good and it is not usual to find a book told from a woman point of view as this one is. The prose is lyrical, detailed, specific to the time and place that is created, with imagery that is compellingly beautiful. I read Song of Achilles, after I read this book and Song of Achilles is also an incredible book, but this one is even better, as the author honed her craft even more deeply than she presented in Song of Achilles. I love mythology, especially Greek mythology and the telling of the tale from Circe perspective which is very interesting. Circe is able to turn people into whatever their base nature is and she turns her sister into Scylla, the monster with many heads who eats men and men into pigs, including those of Odysseus. 