This novel avoids many of the tropes that I dislike about science fiction, the weird names, the focus on the strange science, planets with multiple suns, odd violations of the rules of physics, and the lack of any character development or realistic human interaction. I was really enjoying this until, about half way through, the novel veers into an extended rant about how bogus all religion is. I know this book is a classic one. Liked it less this time around. The character Jubal, who is in many ways the central character is just an insufferable cliche. I guess I though he was wise when I was young. But now, he is annoying. The religiosity are the core of the story seems pretty shallow. Jubal is almost as impossibly unbelievable a character as Michael, and Jubal talks for pages and pages about his own philosophy. One tires rapidly of this exposition. One also tires of the female characters who are drawn to the protagonist and convinced by his sexual prowess. I am not the one to quit a book once I start it, so I had to force myself to finish the stupid thing. I was intrigued by the concept of a human being raised in an alien environment and placed back on earth. I got absolutely nothing out of it, not entertainment, not something to add to my life in any way, not even that great of a story line either. I just do not get why I felt I needed to read it, it was a waste of time without any lesson in the story. I realize this book is a product of author time, but this is kind of painful to read. It is ironic. And author tries to envision an expansive, open culture, brought to Earth by a more advanced civilization. But poor the author absolutely cannot get past heterosexuality, so he develops a cartoon utopia. I do appreciate how the carnival casino churches presage the mega churches of today that was totally prophetic. I love this book, which is quickly becoming one of my all time favorites. But the book that I have purchase is definitely not the uncut version. I am giving this only one star due to false advertising. Please do not be fooled out of your money. This may be a somewhat adequate scan many errors of the original edited edition, but it is by no means the uncut version of this book. The kindle version is not uncut, and the uncut version is far richer in language and content and just a better read. Many of the deep philosophical concepts the author included in his novel are simply missing. I have owned the paperback copy of the uncut edition for years and bought this version to have it in my kindle library. I ended up returning it severely disappointed. The book is more of an investigation of the perspectives on the future and structure of religion than science fiction. As with so many good science fiction authors whose predictions of future technology come true, unfortunately the predictions of the direction of future religion in this book are coming true as well. My thoughts on this book is that the two times I tried to read it was a complete waste of my time.