This story is heartbreaking and insanely sad, and very depressing. It became old and repetitive when I really wanted more Georgia and Moses and witness interaction. First half better than second in that respect. Characters are well developed, but as mentioned before I thought their personalities, eccentricities were described over and over. The author tried to create a complicated, troubled young man Moses who could not connect with another human being, leaving others in turmoil and sadness. Granted the event was not minor but it seemed a contrived cure given everything else going on in his life. Moses for sure was a very unusual person. Not sure that what he was able to do was an asset for him or a curse. He lived a hard life and seemingly did not enjoy a lot of pleasure, but he was blessed with someone in his short life that truly cared for him and was willing to wait for him and love him forever. I feel like the author is forcing the reader into caring for a character because of their innocence and early demise. It automatically pulls on your heartstrings and I think that is cheating in a way. I also found the death unnecessary. You cannot see beauty for many years to come after that kind of soul shattering situation. The story was very slow. Pages upon pages pass by and there is nothing but a deep feeling of despair over these characters. The attempt at capturing the essence of Moses troubled soul did not come across for me. He was too complex a character, and I did not feel that I got to know him. His psychic abilities were somewhat far fetched for my liking, and I quickly lost interest when he began seeing dead people. The writing is beautiful, and I felt real heartache but I never felt that Moses was really invested in Georgia, and I felt she was too quickly forgiving of Moses. The writing is amazing and it is a great life story with lots of emotions. There is no comedic relief, and although some could argue that the pain had a purpose, I would say the story was not set up well enough for us to feel it. Maybe it is my own fault for not liking this book more, because I went into it expecting something else. The book is synopsis made me think this would be an epic love story, but it really was not. It felt more like a paranormal mystery than anything. I just did not feel much connection between the two, the love story was flat to me. I felt like quite a bit was glossed over. That is not really my thing, but the author did a good job of not going over the top and keeping the story on track. I think I am just not a huge fan of the writing style not necessarily the story which was very good. I think my hesitancy in giving this more stars would be the fact that I do not gravitate to paranormal stories.