If you need to laugh out loud occasionally while you are reading a book, you need to read the Stephanie Plum series. The plot is predictable at times, so what. These books are supposed to be written as light entertainment. They make me laugh out loud every time I read one. I like them and as long as the author continues to write them, I will continue to read them. Keep bouncing between the two guys Stephanie. Stephanie Plum is a bounty hunter who keeps her gun in a brown bear cookie jar. The setting is Trenton, New Jersey. Lulu is an assistant bounty hunter. Stephanie has two men in her life, Ranger and Morelli. The deranged brother of a man Stephanie shot and killed early in her bounty hunting career plans to kill her for his revenge. And a serial killer is killing people and dumping their bodies with notes attached that say for Stephanie. Her favorite weapon is a can of hair spray. I personally enjoyed the first six books. Every book seems to get funnier and funnier, a great break from books that are always so serious. The characters are realistic and the mysteries are fun to help solve. Once you meet Sally, you want Sally to appear more often, but Lula is a regular side kick, but there is nothing regular about Lula. There are laugh out loud moments in every book. I especially enjoy Stephanie grandmother. The grandmother is absolutely a hoot. I like all of the characters as well. This series is absolutely fun. I love it. I think any reader of any type of literature would have to like this series, too. This book was a little disjointed but each part was interesting well written and Lula is especially funny. Loved the fact that Stephanie and Ranger finally go together. I would like to see Stephanie drop the cop and get together with Ranger. This book is far from slow or draggy and I think that if one reads too much of one author, no matter who it is, after a while all the stories sound the same. So the author is still the best. The only strange thing is that the book itself is much smaller than the others, more like the size of the very first books in the series. It does not make any difference, just looks a bit odd in my bookcase. I enjoy reading this new book. It is like returning to visit old friends. That is the whole point of a series. Revisiting characters you enjoy. So, quit complaining and find a series you do enjoy. The beginning of the book was slow and felt a little pointless and directionless, but it really started to pick up midway through. Now I am on the edge of my seat again. Thanks, keep it up.