I had such high hopes for this long awaited last book, but it fell short for me. You need to read the first two books before reading this one. I loved the first two books, I tore through them in one day. This third one was still good but as others have mentioned, I was quite disappointed with the ending. This book is the conclusion to the angel fall trilogy. When I first read the description for Angel fall I thought it sounded awesome, so when there were odd plot holes I hoped things would get filled in in the subsequent books. It never happened. This series is an example of lazy writing with annoying popular cliches. Sloppy storytelling and an extreme lack of character development. The concept was the perfect combination of post apocalyptic, action, and adventure. I loved how strong our heroine Penryn is and I love her and Raffe together. But the plot was cheesy and too fantastical. The talent show scene ruined the book for me. While I did appreciate the sexual tension between Penryn and Raffe at the beginning of the book, the plot became repetitive. Then the magic was lost. The characters were super easy to predict, everything seemed very surface level only. I found myself unable to really get invested in the characters or what was going on in the story this time around. Penryn went from motivated bad ass crusader to horny lackluster waif. I do not know if the author was under a short deadline or if she just became obsessed with twilight fever. It seemed like the author got tired of writing and just hurried up and ended the story. I am actually shocked that he wrote this. This book has a lot of draggy and unsatisfactory moments without losing track of the story, which just makes me feel like they were unnecessary filler. So many things left unsaid. Why was Paige the redeemer and then not, why did mom know so much, why did Raffe get so worked up for the last two books and then find out. You start getting a bit of awkward dialogue in this book, but it really goes to another level in the last two chapters which was a shame. It was okay, but in the end, you got a letdown after reading the first book. Now I hope I did not read this and think what an idiot I was. I was set of finishing the series but it really turned into a torturous chore. I wish I could have just been satisfied with spoilers and spared myself the few hours it took to read this. The author remains with his title as the leader of horror.