Some people may consider this somewhat dated science fiction. I read it years ago from the library, but at some points I still think it is fantastic. This is an absolutely amazing book. It won many awards. This one is the second book in the series. It turns the bug war theme on its head and shows us a sympathetic species of arachnids, full of interesting concepts and characters. The first half requires that the reader literally slog through boredom and or apathy for most of the buildup to the end. Then, there is a whirlwind of twists and fruition of plans that will keep you glued to the last quarter of the book. This is probably one of the greatest plotted novels in all of science fiction. Only the author could bring humanity to spiders on a far away world. The presentation of the spiders is set up as a translation. The author is presenting a new approach to the classic translators problem. He uses the latter approach with the alien species. The spiders are presented as going down a spiral staircase, because what they are walking down is their equivalent of what for humans would be a spiral staircase, so for humans to feel what the spiders felt toward it. It is clear that the spiders are not the least anthropomorphic. The book is gripping from beginning to end, spanning thousands of years in narrative. There are dozens of threads going on throughout the book and the author manages to keep them all clear and progressing to a very satisfying conclusion. The author uses three lines including human, alien, and flashback so deftly that you really do need the information from each in order to move the others forward. Most significantly, each line is completely absorbing. Spanning over forty years of objective time, the author spins one of the most imaginative science fiction stories I have ever encountered. This book is also one of the most fully realized alien civilizations I have read, with vivid description of the advancing of an alien civilization. These are not humans masquerading as aliens. These are people with completely unique motivations and outlooks. And yet they still come across as compelling characters, for whom the reader develops a great deal of empathy. The author is a mind boggling visionary. I like the way the author gives enough closure at the ends of his stories, but never totally explains or resolves some problems, nor does he give you so much closure that you stop wanting a little more story. This series has compelling stories, unique and fully formed characters, and most of the science in the book is actually pretty interesting futurist speculation. The character is one of the best ever in science fiction. The author does an outstanding job of lacing his story with familiar tropes to draw you in, but as soon as you think you know what is going on. He twists things in a way that leaves you in awe. If you are new to science fiction, this is a great place to start as well. I came to know and care for the characters and envision their world and back story. By the end I was so anxious to find out what was going to happen yet did not want it to end. This book was a pleasure to read. If you have not read this book, you are missing out on the best science fiction has to offer, and one hell of an author. I do recommend reading the first book in this series first, five stars.