The story is set in India during the days of the British East India Company, before British Government control. Residents find themselves in retreat before a Sepoy mutiny. Nevertheless, the colonists were not represented as the saintly, benevolent saviors of the savage native nor were they represented as evil oppressors. I did find the book very dry, dark humor pleasant when I was reading it. I do not think it is too much to ask for the author to present this time in history from the point of view of an Indian. The historical information and detail was interesting, but I found myself putting this book down often. I would pick it up again, but it was not riveting. That said, if you enjoy a sardonic style, you will enjoy this. While a great deal of the novel is well written and indeed stunning in its imagery and use of language, a great deal of it is not. There is much plodding, pedestrian verbiage larded heavily with cliches, and incidents that are wildly improbable to say the least. This book was very slow giving the what happened with the siege and what after the siege and more than enough before to understand the why. The actual siege described takes place in a fictional town. It was educational from the standpoint of seeing how governments or organizations can go into other countries and think that by dismissing the native cultural works, their way should be welcomed and make life better. I think that I would have enjoyed the book more if it had been based on a true event. The topic itself was appealing. In reality, I found the first part of the book rather boring, introducing numerous people, intimating that trouble was soon to arrive. I found none of the characters to be sympathetic. In fact, after I had put down the book and come back to it later, I would find that I had forgotten who the characters were. There was no one I cared enough about to make me want to continue reading. I got through about eighty percent of the story and then just started skimming to the end. It was much too subtle for me to enjoy. It felt a bit like it was written by someone with an attention disorder. It seemed to jump around a lot, but that could have just been me. It seemed to make a bit more sense to me when I read the afterwords, this was a blending of several different accounts of a similar siege. At times it dragged, and it may be too long.