This book definitely allowed me to take part and visualize the strange worlds and tech suits of the new era. The near future is so well rendered and the characters are believable. I really enjoyed the range of wonderful characters that struggle to fit in but succeed to establish human connections even if just through technology. Several characters that you grow to care about, some mysteriously strange, some sinister and some confused. I can totally emphasize with the two middle aged protagonists, although Robert was a drama queen, he has been poet who thrives off of negative energy and Vaz is an old spook conspiring against the whole of global society with his own agenda. The world the author constructs, may be our future. It is the one where net driven virtual reality dominates everything. Excellent meshing of technology against the human condition. The author shows a world where cooperation can be mediated by technology at multiple scales, between governments, between corporations, or between people across all kinds of boundaries. The cloak and dagger elements are fun and is at the most clever level in some ways. I only wish the author would do a sequel. No other author has as hard about the problem of writing technically realistic novels of the near future. The author displays the fruits of that labor admirably in the world. The future of the internet and medicine is treated in fascinating detail. Also, characterization, which is sometimes the weakness seen in science and technology hardcore, is very satisfying. The people and their interactions have depth. Sadly, the author himself suggests that the effort of doing this kind of writing is so great that a repeat effort is unlikely. As this book ages out it might become the last really good singularity vision in a world where the bar for such achievements grows higher by the day and the ambition of authors continues to fall short. Overall, this book is definitely worth a read. If you are a fan of well written science fiction this is a must read. Its predictions around tablets and augmented reality that succeed them are spot on. However, the author is fairly conversant in computers and networking and really just takes virtual reality one technological step further. While the main characters are interesting, most of the plot seems exist for the sole purpose of exploring computer technology. Do not get me wrong, the technology and world that the author shows in the near future is quite interesting and real, and makes it worth reading the novel just for itself. The story is good, but not great that you can find in some of other works. In the last third of the book he launches into a parallel story line that I think detracts from the overall narrative. The other problem with the book is that it seems unfinished. It sounds like the author forgot to write the last chapter.