When I started reading this book, I was very engaged. Unfortunately, an interesting concept has been dragged down by horrible writing and even worse editing. The lengthy tome is packed with rambling and cliched dialogue. This is not a book you just could not put down. This book made me feel boring. I kept trying to figure out why is was so boring. The plot is fine. But the author spent an inordinate amount of time focused on blogging, bloggers, journalists, journalism, that I was frankly bored. The action that did occur was too little and too late. Perhaps it is also the shallowness of the characters. They are like outlines of characters rather than fully developed. Some of the phrases are constantly repeated. Instead of learning more about each character through the actions and words, we are told the same few characteristics over and over again. You can almost predict what the characters will say before they say it. The main characters are basically the exact same character. There is no discernible difference between the two leading characters. The relationship between the brother and sister, was a bit weird and never really explained or explored, not enough variety in the characters. For me this really is not a zombie book though it is interesting how the book is set years later and we see how they dealt with the uprising. I thought the book dragged and was quite boring sometimes. There was way too much techno babble on every page. It was quite challenging to keep leafing through it. I must admit, if you skim you will not miss much. My biggest problem with the book is that the world the novel was set in seemed to often become an after thought. And even though the political drama was very interesting, it seemed to always be competing with the other story lines. Even the blog entries started out very strong and then seemed to die away such that they became lost in the fray. The writing does not have the depth. I guess it wants to say something about how compelling it is but there are not enough characters to really hold water as a whodunit crime story that it sort of tries to do. It is not a page turner. As of this review, I have had the book over a month and I am still not through with it. I read a chapter here and there simply out of boredom. I kind of struggled through the book, I had read for twenty minutes, get bored and do something else. The bloated and repetitive prose dose bother me. This is a book that definitely did not live up to the hype. I would have awarded it only two stars but the author does something pretty ballsy with the ending and I think she pulls it off. So I am adding a third star to reward her bravery. Shame on me for not reading the reviews before buying the book.