I am so surprised by the good reviews that I am writing a rare review of my own. I had never read a romance with such a suspenseful plot before and I was captivated. I did not read the third one because of reviews but I was excited about this one. I was completely disappointed because I did not care about the story, all I could notice was the overuse of repetition, hype, and short, dramatic sentences to build suspense. The author really needs an editor to clean out all that and make her pull the laces tighter to build a better story. The internal dialogue kills the actual dialogue because it is confusing and annoying. This is a story told, not showed. So poorly written. It is difficult to finish this last book in the series. The repetitiveness is mind boggling and seems like an overbearing, jealous nut. There are many times when I am not sure whose talking and others when the author probably made changes to dialogue but did not correct the whole scene or point of view. I have to admit that I am really disappointed with this book. I had imagined Chase to be brilliant. Second to none and ruthless, but in this book she strikes me as a whiny petulant child with a vindictive streak. I adored the tie ins between other books and this one along with subtle nod to issues in modern culture. That on its own made it interesting enough to keep reading. Unfortunately the sexual tension between Gorgianna and West felt tedious and dull. I ended up skipping much of their interludes. Georgiana would have a conversation about something with Temple, then repeat the whole thing with Duncan, or any number of the other male characters. The main character is not convincingly strong or adept enough to pull off what the author gives her credit for. The author also sets up background info with no historical relevance to help the reader buy into the story. We are supposed to believe the heroine brother gave her loads of money to start an exclusive gaming hell gambling. No explanation of how that came about. But it was repeated multiple times. While I admired Chase desire to prove to not only herself but the ton that she was worth, I could not help but feel that she was selfish and a bit vain. I had high hopes for her being quite a bit of a rogue per say or at least truly embracing her devil may care attitude but it just did not hold true. Granted one would have to be that way in order to ruthlessly build her empire but something just seemed off. I was also a bit disappointed in West. For someone who was so blase about his gossip rags making money from the troubles and tales of the ton, he was quite a bit of an ass. I think it would have been way cooler if the female characters of the series had been more involved, but they were not. That made no sense at all to me and strained belief enough for me not to love this story as much as I expected to. She certainly did not with this book. If I had not an afternoon free, I just do not know if I would have picked this book up. The story was so predictable and so repetitive. Good story line with abundant background on how and why someone became what he or she was. The most frustrating part of this is book is that I felt that the female main character took on too much guilt and blame over withholding secrets.