There are so many amazing characters and beautiful thoughts in this book. The struggle of mans life is so hard to read. The author brings us two characters but she makes them seem so real with real life hardships and realistic human behaviors. You will not find major misunderstandings that resolve at the end, no disrespect, no epiphanies followed by sudden resolved conflicts, and no push and pull drama. Just plain life happening and finding your one true love. The life of Carson is crap thanks to his Dad Jefferson Steele. He beats him, scars him and everything else in between. Separated by a difference in social position in high school, but crushing on each other from afar, Carissa and Carson never expected to meet up years later on the side of the road because of a flat tire. Carissa gave Carson light but she did not know it and what could have been their second chance was delayed. Carson has always been in love with her and is grateful she was the last person he saw before heading out and getting out. Leaving would be the biggest mistake of his life. Returning after all these years and finding Carissa would be the best. Carissa is still in town and life has not been good to her. She married the high school quarterback, rich boy cum lawyer but now they are divorced and the lawyer has taken nearly everything. Broke down on the highway with a baby is not a place Carissa needed to be. Carson started out really frustrating, but once he got on track he was so steady. I loved that Carson went straight to Carissa each time she messed up and confessed immediately so they could work through it together, instead of letting things fester into something much worse. No one in the last hour has even slowed down. But there is something about Carson that strikes a chord. I really liked Carissa as well in that whenever she did something that Carson might disapprove of or told her not to do she did not hide it, or lie or wait for him to hear it from someone else. She was upfront with him about it and they dealt with it together. I think the book really holds the relationship that they knew each of each other before and loved each other then and now with there new personas. This is a stand alone story but characters appear who are from previous books and series. I find it more fulfilling to know the background so I will be catching up. I have struggled to find good authors to follow but now have lucked upon this one. The author has a formula and a writing style, but it works. I love that the author gives us time to get to know characters before drama begins. It was a very engaging read from cover to cover. This is a book I could not put down. It was so good. I loved how our butterfly was smart to come clean not hide things. The story was not rushed and I was able to spend time with the characters. While reading, I can internalize what I just read. That is how powerful this read was for me. One of the biggest draws to her stories besides the obvious are the female characters. I love the fact that the women are curvy, strong but gentle, devoted and driven. I can not wait for the next installment. If you liked any of the other books in the series I definitely recommend this book. And if you have not read any in the series, I recommend this but also recommend reading the other books in the series in order starting with the previous one. It was a good, emotional read. I enjoyed watching as logical Carson evolved, allowing himself to leave his stoicism behind and welcome the love from everyone around him. And it was especially enjoyable reading about a community coming together to support a troubled mother. If only our society did that with all women who need it. All of these books are so are great stories and I loved each one.