I am not sure what I was supposed to feel like I was losing my mind while reading this book. I felt like this book had a very slow start and I kept waiting for it to pick up. But I still contemplated putting it down. There were just certain moments that left me feeling some scenes were just too overly dramatic. There is also that huge plot twist which I think added another element that I just could not connect with as it left everything feeling unresolved. There were so many things that were said, and then changed throughout the story that I am not sure if they were mistakes or if it was supposed to be written like that. I felt a little bit lost, confused that some of my questions went unanswered. Overall, this is a good book about a sad and lonely girl who is consumed by the world she lives in. But at about eighty percent or so, it took a upside degree turn. This is not a love story where the ending will leave you feeling happy and satisfied. This is a dark story about revenge. It is a story about a girl who lives her life based on the circumstances in which she was brought up in. It is also a story about seeking revenge for the innocents who have been wronged in life. It is not an easy book to read. It is graphic, sad and twisted. I got into this book really quickly and I thought this is going to be so good but midway through I started to get this nagging suspicion that it was going to be a let down. That nagging suspicion was right. This was my first read from the author, most likely my last. When I read the blurb, I thought this sounds like a very interesting, dark read and messed up in many places. I like dark reads. However, this was one of the most depressing books I have ever read in my life. This book jumped all over the place. I did not feel a good flow in the story at all. I felt after finishing the book I am not sure who was real and who was not. I do not know if I got a corrupted copy or what but I do not understand where this book went. I am still scratching my head over. I kept checking to see if I missed an entire chapter. It felt like I was reading a different novel. I can not decide if the author was just rushing while writing this and did not realize her mistakes or of she is just an evil genius trying to make her readers feel as though they lost it. I have been trying really hard to get into this book but I can not because it is such a messed up story that I have to see how it ends. There were also some editing mistakes and some time line mistakes and some general inconsistencies. So for the author, either congrats on succeeding in your evil genius plan to make me feel like I have lost it or slow down next time when you write and make a less confusing story. I honestly do not know which you were going for. The reason why the book only got three and half star is that all consuming sadness, depression and hopelessness that wove throughout the whole story like a spiderweb you can not escape. It was too much for me. The little, tiny sliver of hope that the story offered, might or might not have been real, which just pissed me off. I do not need the happy go lucky book or a happy ending, but this one was just too much. It left me emotionally and mentally drained. It is not one I will recommend or read again. Sorry just did not work for me.