This book can be simply described as trying to define what a Jewish identity means. Describing the story line and the cast of characters is more of a challenge. The writing is very good throughout and sometimes it is a laugh out loud experience. This talented author has tackled two subplots with skill and humor. The views of the characters as they reflect on their own lives spoke of both their joys and regrets, which I found to be something to reflect on in my own life. The story revolves around the lives of three friends, Julian Treslove, Sam Finkler, and Libor Sevcik. I found Treslove, who fell madly in love with women all the time, an interesting but annoying character. Very passionate for sure, very much living in the moment. But at the same time, highly insecure, very self involved, and the women he fell for were kind of objects in his world rather than real people. Sam is successful and just gets on with life, while Libor has love for his wife. Both Sam and Libor are widowers at the start of the book. The women in this book assume a more peripheral role in the lives of the characters but they are still essential to the story even though two of them are no longer present by the time the book unfolds. I did find the book easy to read and rather fast moving and I also found the discussions quite interesting. Had the incoherence of this novel, this patently kinked trajectory, served as some greater metaphor for the vicissitudes of modern life. The novel may have maintained a measure of coherence, beautifully written, highly intelligent, funny, compelling. The author cleverly interweaves the main arguments with the protagonist quixotic search for happiness. This book is a very sad and funny depiction of a conundrum that people face. Some people have no idea who they are and do not know what to do with themselves. They enjoy freedom, but do not know how to interact with others in a meaningful way. Others have a very strong identity that frames their response to the human condition and gives them a medium by which they can connect with others. I particularly liked the language that the author used in the book. However, it does help if you are Jewish with some background. This enhances your ability to appreciate how over the top some of his things were, especially as regards the area of circumcision. The main character is juxtaposed with two Jewish chaps that he attempts to understand in relationship to their particular Jewishness or lack of it. Throughout the book, the revelations about contemporary Jewish thinking were startling to me. There is no political correctness here and even though I fell off my chair laughing at parts, I was still forced to confront sad and frustrating realities.