I lost interest in this book about half way through. I found it an uninspired, one dimensional slog through unnecessary details of cruelty. The main character and her relationships were abruptly served as fodder for the next round of brutality. The author tried to include commentary on slavery that I found distracting and the violence included also seemed random. I thought this book was cheesy in parts. The first turn off was the depiction of an fantastical underground railroad. The actual underground railroad was degraded by this unnecessary diversion. There are enough changes that I am not sure what is meant to be historically accurate and what is not that makes the more gruesome details harder to sit through. And I still do not understand the purpose of setting this as alternative history. It completely diminished everything that those who were part of the underground railroad went through. It is depiction of North Carolina before the Civil War was also completely inaccurate. Many other turn offs, mostly regarding distortions of history, but overarching was the stereotypical depiction of blacks as good and whites as horrific. There has been far more interesting, epic, dramatic, deeply engaging books in this genre over the years. Nothing particularly sets in this book for me, or even comes close to the connection I have felt reading other historical fictions about same time and place. I am still shaking my head and trying to figure out on what criteria this book was judged the winner of both a Pulitzer prize and the National Book Award. I like to see things like plot, literate sentence structure, character development, accuracy in references to actual events lines. None of above are present in this book. I finally searched the author, and learned he is a cartoonist. Perhaps that explains the plethora of sentences that would look better in a balloon than on a book page. I personally enjoy reading more non fiction material, but realize it is important to strengthen both the left and right side of your brain, which is why I selected this fictional piece. To be fair to the author and to who ever reads this review, this post is the definition of the type of review you should ignore. But this book is completely biased to my opinion on the subject of African Americans. I found the second half of the book less fluid and somewhat disjointed than the first. If you are looking for a completely accurate work of historical fiction on the topic of the Underground Railroad, this is not it. But I still have appreciated a follow up from the author explaining what in his book is real and what is fictionalized. Personally, the writing in this publication is sound, the material is enjoyable and the reading seams to fly by. So, given all the positive press about this book, I was disappointed. It would have been much more interesting for this novel to have had a realistic depiction of how the underground railroad actually worked.