I had heard of the book but it never read it before hand I was surprised that some of the transitions that took place. I went into this book with very high expectations. The read is very quick. You can get through it in a day if you have the time and the desire. It is also a fun read, in that it is both easy and gives a little brain tease semi regularly. It is a provocative novel that uses the Theory of Relativity to show us how much the world changes over the one hundred of years that actually pass while the space warriors are on missions that last for months. One can tell the Vietnam War, population growth and the sexual revolution were fresh on the mind of the author. It is still a fine and engaging fiction novel. It covers a lot of ground, which is both interesting but also a little frustrating. Each stop in a different era hints at interesting societal situations that go relatively unexplored as the protagonist catapults forward to the next era. I was pleasantly surprised by the writing and intellectual quality of The Forever War. The combat in the book is well written and keeps you interested. Shifts in social and sexual mores that occur during the three combat missions of the protagonist are jarring for him, yet he manages to hold to his personal principles and beliefs. The parallels with Vietnam are clearly intentional, and the returning soldiers are greeted not as heroes but as oddities in a culture. The main character has been drafted into a war against an alien race. Not only does he worry about facing the alien race, but he also has to deal with the fact that space travel has him fighting for an Earth that he does not even know anymore. So if you are looking for something completely different I highly recommend picking this up. The isolation, despair and fear fully come through in the writing, making the reader care instantly what happens. The author served as an army engineer in Vietnam and based the story on the letters he wrote home to his wife. This is probably what gives the book, though abounding in page turning battles, its remarkably human touch. Forever War, written in prose, is as masculine as it is tender and heartbreaking. It shows not only a soldier gritty experience of war but also his inability to escape it upon returning home. However I think that it has lost something since being written. Maybe its tremendous impact on the science fiction genre is working against it when read today. Specifically, the concepts which were novel when this was written, have become tropes and standards, which since have executed with greater breadth and resolution. The length also works against it in that it is hard to flush out concepts when the time line of the book is millennium and the book is less than three hundred pages. It is absolutely a required read for any lover of Science Fiction. If you do not mind a book that raises more questions than it answers, this is an interesting use of the science fiction genre to explore topics of war and inclination towards violence. I hope to read more of work of the author as soon as I get through some of the others ahead of his in my library. The title is appropriate since the book covers several hundred years although it does not cover them in a drawn out manner.