Since this is such a classic by author, I kept expecting the book to grip me and envelop me in the imagination of the author. This is a book that started off as a short story and was expanded into a novel. There are quite a few beautifully written and insightful lines. The basic story itself is good. A middle aged man returns to his hometown for a funeral and finds himself sitting at the edge of a pond remembering the life of his seven year old self. The ideas of sacrifice and memory and growing up are interesting enough. It is whimsical and frightening, straight forward in story line. The writing was excellent and there were lots of fascinating ideas and observations about life and how societies function, along with some nice plots turns and twists. The physical settings, the descriptions were also very enjoyable. Unfortunately, that moment never quite arrived for me. While the author is definitely a master of prose, and his writing reflects a fertile imagination, I never became emotionally involved with either the story or the characters. I struggled to care about the characters. Interesting at the beginning but within first fifty pages I got lost, did not know which direction the story was going. The novel has some interesting chapters scattered in between the main story but I got disappointed that they turned out to be independent stories with no connection to the main story. I felt the writing was very articulate, but not too high brow. The main character was a likable guy. The defining moment that happened prior to the book opening was never really explained. This book still sits somewhere in between a short story and a full blown novel, and I thought it could have used some more expanding and exploring of the characters, most of whom felt never fully realized. Also, the story was too long and never really drew me into it. It has been a long time since I studied mythology but still I recognized most of the main gods. I just did not care about them, and even their struggle to be recognized in the modern world just fell flat. The concept of old world ideas coming to die in America is a fairly used up one and it is just rehashed here. Overall, I felt like there was no middle to the story. Reading this book is like walking somewhere in a cold mist and not really knowing where your going, and when you get where you are apparently supposed to be you do not know why the hell you took the trip in the first place. You just meandered along trying to figure things out and then it is the finale. Even the finale was anti climactic. I know this book has many fans, but I was happy to finally move on to something more interesting. With my mixed feelings it is likely I will return to this book when I am in more of a mood for discovery and expect to enjoy it more as I slip even further from childhood.