I absolutely loved this fascinating book about a strong Jewish family survival in WWII. It is a true story of a senseless horrible war never to be forgotten. Different from other WWII ones that detail the horrors Jews faced throughout Europe, this story was based on author family who went in a variety of directions during the invasion of Poland and cheated the roundup of Jews destined for annihilation against odds. With obviously real events, this story is more moving and a must read in gripping narrative, hard to put down. Although, at first, it is a little difficult to identify and follow all the five family members, yet characters are with a common thread of strength, courage, love, bravery, quick thinking, and some luck. Each chapter is filled with hope and the amazing strength of spirit of each character. The family love is filled with sorrow, pain and loss. Sacrifice is a theme throughout this story. Survival is dependent on faith in each other. These five people suffered unimaginable atrocities and yet they endured, overcame and not only survived but learned to live with joy again. The author takes incredible research to weave a beautiful, easy to read story, keeping the heartbreaking story on a narrow. How did the story happen is unexpected and keeps me turning pages. Although the story bounces around the characters, annoying to keep location for traveling, making it easy to lose the story line. But still this is a story, beautifully written and fast paced with excellent historical references and emotions, that has stayed with me. I have goosebumps while reading the family story. Please read this true story, just for the sake of hate. It makes us able to have the history etched in soul and to appreciate all that we have so easily today. We are lucky ones, having nothing to complain and a lot to be grateful for. I cannot stop talking about it with friends. It is excellent especially for a new author. I hope everyone in everywhere will be able to read. Highly recommend.