I got to see both Kellan and Kiera in a somewhat different light. The first time I read this book I wanted to chuck my table at someone, preferably Kiera. However, I really like the drama and romance and it was nice to see how Kellan felt when he said certain things. Kellan Kyle is one of my all time favorite book boyfriends. I loved his inner monologue. I loved knowing what he was doing when he would disappear for days in this book. I loved knowing why he lets Kiera do what she did to him as that was my biggest frustration with him in this book and the cause of many an angry text sent to fellow book club members. I also liked that more of his childhood and his bond with Denny was included in the story. It made everything more heart wrenching for me. It is amazing that Kellan is this sexy rock god who can have any woman he wants, yet he is so incredibly insecure. I thought my heart would break when it was revealed why he had so many sexual encounters. Without ruining anything, it is not for your normal reasons of numbing the pain he carried around with him. It made me want to hold him and assure him that everything would work out for him, and he would be okay. This book was amazing. It let us see the side of Kellan to the first story, and opened my eyes a lot to the situation from his perspective. I sympathize with Kellan and hurt for him in this book. Reading how much he loved Kiera and how hurt and torn he was having to accept she was the girlfriend of Denny when he knew in his soul they belonged together. For this story, I almost did not read Kellan point of view because so often when a story is one point of view and then the author decides to throw in a second point of view in a different book, it falls so flat for me. This was not the case at all for Kellan story. I felt like I was reading a completely different book. It was written so beautifully that instead of feeling like I was watching a rerun of a movie or show. It added to the effect. But the first half of this book was just okay for me. It felt very drawn out. The second half of the book flowed much better for me. Thoughtful is sexy and angst and heartbreaking. And if possible, it made me love Kellan even more. In addition, I loved to hear Kellan point of view, but some of the Dialogue did not quite match up with this book. I am not sure if I read the same book as the other reviewers, but I thought there was plenty of emotion in this book. To go and give a mediocre rating based on the fact that the book was repetitive, in the past, needs to be something new is just ridiculous. This was a great companion to the this series. I did not really care much for the ending because it makes it seem like that is the end of the whole story when I hope that is not the case. There are just way too many other scenes that I had always wanted to know what Kellan was thinking. I just hope it all comes to fruition. I am looking forward to reading more story about Kellan. It really made me appreciate the story that much more. I definitely recommend reading this book after reading the entire series. My only disappointment with this series is that every girl that meets Kellan just finds him over the top handsome. The great thing about humans is that our opinions are different and what one person likes another person dislikes. For example, I personally do not find blonde, blue eyed, tall lean men attractive. With all this being said, this is a great series but in reality what one woman finds attractive does not mean another woman will feel the same.