I thought the story line was good, premise cute, witty and humorous conversation. A 15 year old girl was drugged and raped and the attacker got free. I certainly would not want any one who read this to get the impression that it is not worth reporting or seeking help if they are victims. The strongest voice award in this story goes to Garrett. He is exactly what you would expect the captain of a college hockey team to be and he is unapologetic about it. Garrett and Hannah become acquainted when Garrett says he can help her get a guy she is crushing on if she would tutor him. Cute, but predictable. Once Hannah and Graham started having feelings for each other, though, the story picked up. I will read on in the series. As they spend time together, feelings begin to develop. But, I struggled to connect with through most of the book. This book is certainly one of the better new adult novels I have read but it still did not win me over. Regardless, I applaud the author for incorporating some pretty heavy themes into this romance and managing to keep the sexy factor strong. But I felt a little bad about the sex. It felt cheap to me and not very thought out. Emotions were high and the drama element was in full force on both sides, but I was able to keep my eye rolls at bay. This book did not really get my attention the way a good book usually does. The story was interesting and unique, the writing was good with humor, sometimes funny, and the romance and chemistry was definitely great. It just felt like something was missing. An essential piece to make the story a page turner. There just was not enough spark and I felt like the story dragged on until it finally got interesting towards the end. I am not sure what exactly could have upped the book. My patience with the men in these types of novels is low. That being said here is why it is a one star. Main male character is a slut because of course why write a guy with any depth when you can take the easy way out and make him a slave to his penis. We see detailed hook ups at the beginning, I usually overlook those even though they are unnecessary. Then we are well into the story, past the part where they have started hanging out and getting to know each other. It is cheap and a little gross. This book really interested me when I saw the raving reviews and I was super excited to start the series but unfortunately I did not fall in love with the couple which is a must for me. I really wanted to and I kept reading, hoping the connection would get better but it just never happened. I like an author who can make me miss the couple when I have to put the book down for a few minutes. Moreover, I listened on Audible. I found the the voice of narrator is too husky. Not a good match for me. She narrated both the hero and heroine points of view. I feel a male narrator should have spoken for the hero. As the voice were the same, it was hard to imagine that the follow up story was now about different characters. In my opinion, different narrators should be employed to read sequels starring different protagonists. If you are a reader who does enjoy the new adult genre, I highly recommend this book.