This was my first book by this author and I am thinking maybe I should have started with a different one because if they are all like this I may not read her anymore. This book was a bit slow. The writing was good, the characters were okay but I felt no connection with them. Summer is a small town girl and Cole is a big time movie star, who is hiding in Georgia after catching his wife having sex with another man in their California home. Then, the Hollywood boy Cole meets country girl Summer who has an edge with him from the moment she meets him. Cole and Summer hated each other throughout the entire book. It took the entire book for those feelings to finally surface. The premise of the book was sweet but I was sick of hearing about sweet tea. You really could have read the first two chapters and the last two chapters and had the whole story in a nutshell. The characters were one dimensional and story line was very predicable. I did not really see what drew characters to each other. It all seemed so rushed and some parts seem to drag. Then all of the sudden, the character can not stop thinking and lusting over. The plots are so over done with little substance. I was bored stiff up until the point that they meet. The inner monologue was so long at times I started just skimming through paragraphs. The majority of the book is repeating. The story was busy and on the cutesy side for the author. It just never spoke to me other than some appeal for the older guy, younger girl romance. Most movie actors are narcissists, so maybe the romance would have grabbed me more outside the context of film making. There is also a sex scene that may be one of the best I have ever read, but honestly that is about the only thing I remember about this book. Only certain scenes captured my attention and the rest felt tedious and rife with filler and quirky characters and lame movie production situations. I would have understood it more if the author had shown the hide side of the characters. I expected more after seeing the reviews. In no way did this book need to be with such long pages. There was way too much set up to this book and not enough concentration on the heart of the story. We are strung along throughout the book wondering why Summer was ostracized from her town. I was waiting for a huge twist, but the twist was so stupid. A lot of build up for a book that was pretty disappointing. Another issue is the change in narrative style from first person to third person throughout the story. At first I found this to be quite jarring but eventually shifted my mental gears more readily once I knew to expect it. However, I never liked the switch between storytelling styles and it always managed to pull me from the story, an aggravation. This is definitely not one that I would want to read again.