This book is a concise edited version with fabulous drawings that illustrate the adventures of Gerda as she searches for her friend Kai. I was compelled to reread and this was the perfect edition for me. Despite its brevity, it captures all the main elements of the classic story. The best feature of this handsome hardcover is the colorful and imaginative illustrations. The pop ups and illustrations are fantastic fairy tale artwork. The pop up execution is really detailed. If you are a fan of the story, you must know this is abridged, and quite so. This book is truly beautiful and a wonderful addition to any collection, and a joy to read for adults and children alike. I bought this book for my daughter for Christmas. I bought it mostly because I thought it would be a unique addition to our book collection. This book will not disappoint. It is truly a work of art, absolutely gorgeous. The author is amazing, who battled some serious traumatic head injury that put her career on hold. But I hope for and continue to wait for more books from this talented author. When I received this book, I realize that this book is very special and spent time looking at pictures, mesmerized by the colors and pop ups and insists to read this before bed every night. You can read with a steady quick pace and just one twist after another that loops into a seamless ending. But if you want to dig deeper, the book has a lot to say about love, civilization, politics, justice, and how it is that we come to be who we are. There is a great nature versus nurture debate in the characters. I love it because, it is a book I can read over and over again and still find something I did not quite see before. The story got fascinating elements of science fiction, a fallen Empire, dozens of cultures and races, twin suns, century long seasons, and corruption of immortality. It is brimming with eye popping and twists the scientific into the fantastical. The characterization of the author evokes genuine interest in lives and struggles. I have come to believe that fairy tales are the most adult literature that anyone can read, for they are true to sublime reality. I felt lost in the world of the this book and could feel every vibration from the pages seeping into me. The book is aimed at kids ages four to eight, but I do not think it would be ideal for a child under five. From experience, I can say that kids under five will most likely rip up a pop up book. To have this one ripped up would be a shame. The print is nice and big and while it is probably not for a very young reader, I would say that an early independent reader can handle this book, especially since the rich illustrations help keep the reader attention on the book and not get discouraged. The biggest disappointment is that this book did not have a pop up for the last scene. It would have been wonderful to portray the happy ending in full color and dimension. Another thing I found a little troublesome was the size and color of the story text. It is a bit small, in my opinion, and somewhat hard to see in places because it does not contrast enough with the background color. Overall, I highly recommend this book also for young children.