There are books that stay with you long after you finish reading them. This book is one of those books for me. I got this book as a freebie and it is the first book that I have read from this series. I did not read all of the reviews, so imagine my surprise when it ends with a cliff hanger. The story is intriguing and It will draw you in. There were moments of sorrow, heat, and humor. That being said, I do not feel like I missed anything by not reading previous books. This book has major twists and turns that you just did not see coming if you did not read any reviews. The character, Natalie, the female lead, has a husband Aaron who is a navy seal and dies. His best friend, Liam, comes around to fulfill his promise that he would take care of Natalie and her daughter with her late husband. Natalie, being heartbroken, kind of goes through the motions for a bit and Liam shakes her out of her funk. He makes her smile. He makes her laugh. He makes her feel. And eventually, he makes her feel things they both feel they should not be feeling. He cares for her, they both care about each other and they are both grieving the loss of Aaron. They find comfort in each other. As I read I felt so many different emotions and really felt like I could relate with Natalie. I start the story right smack in the middle of what can only be perceived as the worst and most trying point in the life of Natalie. Her husband got very sudden and unexpected death while she is pregnant with their daughter. Obviously, she becomes an emotional robot locking away her true feelings and not grieving properly in order to care for her daughter who is born shortly after. From the very beginning my heart felt like it was in my throat. Being a military wife for the past twelve years this book truly hit home for me. I have attended memorials and there are just no words to express the emotions that run through you when trying to console the family of the fallen. The author brought all those emotions to the forefront and made me feel as if I were a part of the story going through every emotion as it happened. This book was so amazing. I do not believe I had been that immersed in a book in a really long time. The author writes in such a powerful way that grabs you and draws you in immediately. I read the prologue and was instantly drawn in to this wonderful book. I can not even begin to imagine what the book wives go through and Natalie shows that she is a very strong person. This book is emotionally intense but also filled with lots of love, friendship, and laughter. It will pull at your heartstrings as well as make you laugh. The story of Natalie is hard and I love her. She is my favorite female now and you will love her. Liam is swoon worthy and a perfection to me. From sexy navy seal to handyman around the house to a hot babysitter to an all around amazing man. I had a smile plastered on my face almost the entire time. The love scenes between Natalie and Liam were a perfect combination of sexy and sweet. This grabs you from the start and I was not able to stop reading. The writing is exceptional I am beyond blown away. I can not say much spoilers and all but this is beyond five stars. I loved this book. It gave me hope for more.