Slow down your breath. Find that place in your chest that flutters soft and patient, like anticipating a kiss. It is only once in a blue moon that a novel captures me as this one did. This book is delightful. It starts slow, waiting for the reader to match its tempo. This is one of the most moving, caring, emotional novels I have ever read. The plot sounded like something I might be interested in with intrigue, mystery, murder, and love. I will admit that the narration of nature in the swamp and marsh does get a little redundant but if you get past that you will find a book with a narrative hard to put down. After starting the book this was all I could think about for days. No skimming over sections in this book. I should not have been surprised as the author has a great style in her wildlife books that I love to read. A novel like this is not my normal read. Maybe I need to now reconsider what I choose as this book stopped me cold and made me rethink a lot that happened in my life. I am extremely stingy with my compliments for good books, but this tale is well deserving of the praise. I have to confess that I have also had magical moments with marsh creatures such as herons, eagles, and mud turtles. The marshes are separate character, but despite the fact that I am freaked out by insects and mud and most other creepy crawlies, I could actually imagine myself enjoying the Carolina experience. The characters ceased to live on the page. They were alive with me and I was in the marsh, feeling every feather. The protagonist Kya became a trusted friend and so many moments touched my very soul. We soon learn that we are being introduced to the Marsh through the discovery of a body, that of Chase Andrews. She creates her own spiritual beliefs and conforms her actions accordingly. She creates a natural world on the bubble beyond normal human society. I am a compulsive collector of treasures from this series which makes this book so attractive to me. I devoured every single word. I laughed, I cried and most importantly thought differently about life. I became the character of Kya, desperately alone and forced to try to eke out an existence on her own in the marshes. I saw this book recommended on some magazine publication review, do not remember which one. I loved this book from the very first sentence to the very last sentence. The writing is more than just about the natural world. The prologue begins in the Marsh. From the first few sentences describing it like Marsh is a space of light, where grass grows in water, and water flows into the sky you are pulled into the wonderful descriptive writing. Although no one seems to have consulted the plot location in this book, yet this bizarre geographical ignorance mars an otherwise nicely written account of the struggle of Kya with loneliness, isolation, and love. For me to write a review is also a rarity. From the first paragraph to the last I was completely immersed in the plot, characters, and motifs. The lyric voice sings clearly in the words of Kya. Both heart and gut wrenching, I am profoundly affected by this novel and was pleased that the author gave us the complete story. This book was amazing a must read.