I found the book to be mostly a page turner, but not enjoyable. I expected to be inspired, but I disliked almost all the characters including the main character Tara, not believable. Maybe I am just cynical, but I have to wonder that was this really non fiction. There were just too many coincidences and the sequence of events just too neat to be real. This is a painful tale of a dysfunctional and abusive family. A few of the children manage to escape terrible life and academically succeed. The author escapes and is able to overcome zero homeschooling and get a PhD in history, but for years later, she goes back to the family. The returns and attempts to have a normal relationship only serve to make Tara experience the old, chronic and understandable self doubts about her own sanity. There is so much left out. It is hard to like a book which largely dwells on the ignorance and pain inflicted on the children. Tara and her siblings have accidents every other page but no one gets an infection due to the lack of a doctor visit but supposedly the homemade remedies take care of everything. The medical world should take notice, if this is true. In other words, I believe Tara had a terrible childhood and parents, but there are just too many unbelievable medical emergencies. The father buys no insurance or registers the cars but when there are accidents, there are no repercussions. No one dies in a car accident where the whole family goes over a cliff without wearing seat belts. The mother is supposedly brain damaged after the accident, but there is no diagnosis from a medical professional to confirm that. The author says she kept journals but I am not sure that she recorded what vegetable her mother was chopping. The brother catching on fire to the point that his skin is burned off down to muscle and sinew, but he recovers from that injury without attention from real medical professionals. It is just too much for me to stomach or frankly believe. With less medical emergencies thrown in, there was no insight into why women live this way. The book begins with Tara as a young child so she knows no other way, but there is no insight as to why. Even as an adult, she continually returns home and tolerates, allows, family, young children, relatives, to be harmed living in a horrible family. I love books and the beautiful writing, but it was difficult to read about the abuse and to reconcile inconsistencies. I kept hoping for some joy or some great revelation. Instead it was sad and maddening. This intense life story needed some distance and depth as well as more skill as a writer. I had to skim parts of it that should have been edited out. They were long, pointless and rambling. I cannot understand why is so much prize given to this book. The author went through a hellish upbringing and managed to compile a long list of great accomplishments. But, she has given up on her obligation to get the appropriate authorities. Once I finished, I reread the comments and did a little research of my own and now I feel like I enabled a deranged human in a very public charade and I was duped into my worst nightmare. Finally, the plot dawned on me how naive I was to believe this.