Excellent book. The author is correct when he says this is a book everyone needs to read. I came home from work to find this book waiting for me and as soon as I cracked it open I could not put it down. This book is historically accurate and philosophically consistent. It is a comprehensive, historical review of both the Christian heritage and the pagan secular Godless heritage. On the one side is the focus on the moral, on the other side is the history closed world of secular humanism where man has no one to talk to but himself. The book traces how these two world views change the purposes of government, society, science, and philosophy. It stays on the academic and logical side of the delicate balance between patriotic nationalism. The author has once again proved his argument through reason and answered his critics with undeniable truth. He spends ample time explain how we got where we are in the West and why the left wants to destroy the idea of democracy. I am so grateful to the author for writing this timely book. I have grown increasingly concerned with the unnecessary and completely unwarranted infighting within humankind along with an erosive tribalism mentality that certain ideologies seem to want to perpetuate in order to control more and more people enabled by adults who should know that they are being played. That anyone is still allowing this to happen is what has been baffling me. I hope that more potential readers realize that this type of information. Filled with actual facts and compelling reading, is crucial to those whose foundation relies on us to provide the best future for the next generation. This book was made to reunite not divide. I used to be more on the liberal side and the author is a very intelligent person that captures your attention especially for young people. He really expands the mind for the better. I am now a conservative and I am so much happier. Ignore the one star comments. They does not even make sense the reviews written honestly. If you go in reading the book with negative labels on the conservatism, of course your not going to enjoy the book. The author puts into words what makes the West exceptional and the responsibility each generation has to protect the freedom we have come to know. While it is difficult to feel optimistic in turmoil of current political landscape, the author presents a path forward that can allow the West to cling to its values and prevail as the world leading force for freedom. There is a lot of things I disagree with the author about and there is some things I agree with. This presentation of the collected information is extremely informative and shows a good root of where a lot of viewpoints originate based on historical data. I hate reading about history and I can not stand novels. I pretty much can only tolerate textbooks. This book, however, was an easy read. I did not like other books but thoroughly enjoyed this one as I feel its structure and presentation is fairly clear. I read a review that said he only cites things that back his point of view, but that is simply not true. If you are looking for a book that promotes a certain politician you will come up wanting. This is a history of political philosophy. It is well researched and a pleasure to read. It brought back fond memories of learning about the origin of various political or religious ideologies. I learned so much from this book. Ben is a great writer.