I have read several personal memoirs from many people. This is one of the most endearing, sincere, and thoroughly readable memoirs from someone at thirty seven with wisdom beyond his age. It was related and completely personal. I am so impressed with the ability to bring clarity to whatever topic he is discussing. His understanding of history and how we have arrived in the here and now is exceptional. The author elucidates the world and simultaneously imagines it better. He is exceptional at sharing his vision of what that means. He is even better at including the visions of others in what he foresees. It is one of the best autobiographies that I have read in quite some time. It was honest, thoughtful, optimistic, and inspirational. The author exhibits a wisdom and in depth understanding of the issues that is rare in most politicians today. I remember seeing the author for the first time on an interview and thought he was just on as a novelty appearance. I went right to his website and gave him a donation. This guy needs to at least have a seat at the table. I had heard of author before he announced that he was considering running in the presidential election. He is not simply a long shot. With that said, he clearly has the background that can appeal to people from nearly everywhere in the United States. His degrees from Harvard and Oxford are impressive. He was a Rhodes scholar and was deployed to Afghanistan. He talks about going to nearly every county in Indiana to shake hands and talk to people. While the author is younger than most candidates seeking high national office, his experiences in some realms are greater than many now running. His personal story is a good one and I agree with many reviewers that his relationship with his future and now husband is a highlight. From the very first paragraph, I knew that this was not only going to be an informative, interesting read, but an inspirational one, from the standpoint of highly crafted, expert writing. I could not put this book down. The author comes across as authentic, humble, witty, brilliant, and extremely likable. This book is so unlike the other books I have read by the aspiration Democratic politicians of our time seeking the nomination. In contrast, it is a journey written from the heart by a keen observer of life. The author has the rare gift of policy acumen and warmth. The book shows that this was part of a life strategy built on service in politics and the military. The author records the details and outcomes of a variety of challenges he experienced, all with analytic detail, an appreciation for building networks of shared values to get things done, and a loving commitment to the people he has served to date. This is why he will be a great presidential leader. The most interesting sections were in the second part of the book when the author clearly presented the day to day city challenges of problem solving when working the the citizens of South Bend, colleagues in government and the state of Indiana. What in almost any other context might seem dry, was complex and quite educational. The book shows he has the fundamental experience and a quiet, confident boldness to commence this leadership now. I would recommend reading the sample of this book, if nothing else. You can get a glimpse of South Bend and the way that it has changed over the years.