I am an avid reader, but I rarely leave book reviews, feeling as though someone has already done a better job of expressing my opinion. Reading this book is beyond boring, tedious and painful and definitely gives one an insight into the authors self entitled attitude and how he figured out what life is all about, not really. Completely ridiculous book for those of us who are mature enough to have had a lifetime of experiences and who have been able to fulfill our realistic and hard driven expectations and goals, over years of hard work and determination. The author gives you the blueprints to get your head out of your ass and take a hard look at yourself and the real world around you, and shed many of the illusions you have been slowly poisoning your life with. The title, I believe is click bait and does speak to the need of the society to counter balance an unnatural work obsessed culture, but treatment of the author is unfocused, time wasting, unprofessional and negative. I like the premise and the idea that we need to let some shit go in order to more fully participate in the more important aspects of our lives. What I do not like is that his message ends even before developing that message. This book glorifies the idea of not letting some things go but just stops there. It just says, stop caring about a bunch of stuff and then leaves it at that. Maybe some folks are into it, but to me it was less than inspiring and not at all novel. The message is pretty banal and vague and at times seem contradictory. No real insights to be had here, just something that is like a skewed facsimile. I finished this book scratching my head wondering what the heck did I just read and why did I waste my time not getting anything really valuable or tangent enough to apply to real life. His examples and approach is all too broad and does not really guide you in any way in my opinion. Some may find this useful and entertaining but to me it was a total waste of time and he was just trying to sound cute with an appealing book title. The authors examples are long stories, stretched to prove a point and fill up pages I feel. After the first third was over and the author talks about visiting fifty countries and banging chicks every night, it gets really tiresome. A very entertaining romp through philosophical thought by a skilled wordsmith, but I would say the age cut off for this book is fifty. Beyond fifty, you have probably already learned most of the lessons in this book in the hard way. To me, the book comes across philosophies that are the result of aimless musings that materialize as a rant. The author could very well be the counter balance we need to the messages we receive from empowerment seminars, celebrities and successes. But he never questions whether this empowerment gives people hope. The tone is judgmental, rather than empathetic. The experience is cheapened by colloquialisms. I could not find much enthusiasm for the things being said because I find them to be basic things that I have always believed. I do not discount the journey of the author to being a more fulfilled and productive human but I just felt as someone who has read a lot of those texts got more meaning from the original than this book paraphrasing it.