Book serves its purpose. Product quality is bad for being brand new. There is some kind of stray mark or botched print that has bled through to numerous pages preceding the mark. The pages were occasionally a bit faint on the ink. Still readable, but a little disappointing. The pages were a bit wavy also like the books are stored in a damp place. It does not affect the ability to read these other pages, but it is an imperfection nonetheless. The books are beautifully written, the artwork is wonderful, but the books themselves terribly made. Combat is clunky, skills are super broad, spell variety is not original, and the rules as written in many situations has us wondering what the designers were thinking. I am thinking of removing all the pages and transferring them to a binder. As much as I like this series, the way that the author traditionally organize the material is awful. Mechanics are introduced in a completely absurd order. During race selection, the first step of the character creation process, you are given modifiers that you have to go over one hundred and eighty pages ahead to find out what they do. It does not function as a read through because it is all out of order. And it is not a very good reference piece either, because the tables are limited. There is no actual list of ritual spells in the book, they are scattered through the list. Advantage, disadvantage, new mechanics and terms, and even old ones, there is no easy reference glossary to refer to. Just go to the index, thumb through the book, and scan the page for the one paragraph you need. The system is great, but whoever organized this book as material should be sent back to the drawing board. There are some serious issues with the printing, storage, construction of the books. Two friends and I all got this book, and all three of us had pages that were warped. It almost looked water damaged and apparently this is a common issue. A lot of people are getting copies that have the cover attached upside down. Three days after I got the book, the entire spine separated from the cover. The glued black paper is all that is holding it together. This is very disappointing, but will be rectified by replacement. I had my concerns after reading so many reviews but hoped those problems were taken care of after the first couple of print runs. For a book with a fifty dollar price tag this is very uncool. Do not let this deter you though. When I receive an acceptable replacement I will adjust my rating to four stars. The last fifty pages or a little more than that were bent or just not even close to right. Let us just say I was not happy when saw it, because the pages that are used for printing characters sheets was so deformed or bent and worse that after I did what I could to make it better. Those pages looked like how things paper reacts once it has been in water, except no water marks just what tends to happen to those pages afterwards.