I like and respect the author. But this summary must have been written by someone for whom English was not their first language. The individual chapters have been reduced to incomprehensible bullets. Too many hyphenated and parenthetical sections that caused sentences to run too long. Each chapter included examples and stories but their relevance to the rule was not always clear. Some passages are just too crazy and I wonder how a scientist can have such primitive beliefs and mix them up with facts trying to make a point. I also found the argumentative style irresponsible, as the author would often cite data from scientific studies and jump right into drawing parallels with literary archetypes. I have listened to the author speak on a few occasions and he sounded like somebody I could learn a few things from. However, it is tough to know who the audience is for this, who he thinks these rules apply to and could benefit. This book starts rather well. However, it continues with the next several chapters heavily relying on biblical stories. The author is a guy who thinks and has publicly stated on multiple occasions that morality can only be constructed upon biblical stories. Nonetheless I was hoping this book would give me some interesting new ideas, and it failed to deliver. Some of the ideas are not so great. There is rigidity to some of his constructs particularly around gender that seem unhelpful to me. There are also too many bible references and I get bogged down with all the references to the Bible and philosophers, many of whom I am no longer familiar with besides their name. I struggle to make it through some of the rules. I even tried the audio version and the actual author is the speaker. It was worse than reading it on my own. Maybe anyone that writes this type of book has to have deep faith in the validity of their worldview. All in all, I felt the book challenged me. This is some of the most repetitive, rambling text I have ever tried to slog through. This book is so far from the standard as the author sets in his dialogue that I have to express disappointment. So much of this book felt painful to read because of how dull and pointless it was. Although there are some interesting nuggets in there, yet I will be donating my copy to the grocery store bin sometime soon. Tough to read, tougher to feel like the author said anything meaningful for most of the time. I strongly suggest previewing this book at a library or book store. If you have the same reaction I have had, you will put it right back down, saving yourself time and money.