It is indeed difficult to put it down. This is a guided tour throughout human history with a short glimpse into the future at the end. It is easy to understand that as a species, we have accomplished much. However, it is equally easy to understand that the stakes are high for our way forward. Progress is an imperative that must extract from the environment. This the first book that has offered a wider perspective, a work of popular historical science. I put the emphasis on popular historical. The author has put together a reasonably coherent history of people and some of the bases for being concerned about the future. The author is an expert in the subject and a masterful teacher, not only capable of simplifying human history for the layman but also skillful enough to make it highly entertaining and educative. Every chapter wakes up a sense of wonder, and sheds new light on what before seemed only mundane and uninteresting. Inquisitive, insightful and illuminating, reading this book was like having a meaningful and edifying conversation not just with a brilliant historian but with a world class philosopher and thinker. This book has a very different topic since it is a book about humans and their past, present and future. This is a remarkable book that analyzes the interconnected forces at play that drove human history to where it is today. From farming to capitalism to science to religion. We truly are a miracle of nature, awful and awesome. Those reviewers who focus on the imprecision are missing the point. Do not allow the bad reviews to dissuade. A lot of the negative reviews seem to be the result of cognitive dissonance. I think this book is best suited for those with an open mind and willing to accept scientific evidence as fact. The author does an amazing job at writing in such a way that keeps you intrigued and interested. The author takes a step further by including cliff hanger like leads into the upcoming chapters that makes it a fun read. I really enjoyed how information was presented at such a high level. I would love to have dinner with the author because I have so many questions for him. He is like a walking computer database but with feelings. Many of these ideas, particularly those about human evolution and cognitive development, have been around in various guises for years, but this book does a wonderful job bringing together many disparate theories about who we are and how we got here, that it is worth the read. Anyone interested in learning how the world works, and why it works the way it does, needs to read this. Giving it an honest read and put aside all your cognitive biases about everything will open your eyes, and free your mind so that you can think critically. Anyone finding this book difficult to read probably does not understand what facts and evidence are. It is a commonly held belief that we humans have rightfully emerged to rule over all the creatures of the earth. This book really makes me think about this assumption. The author implicitly suggests that our common belief in our own evolutionary brilliance may not really be a fact existing in reality anywhere outside of our own fertile imaginations as a species.