The author is not throwing wealth in your face as one reviewer put it. She is not bragging about her wealth. She is mocking it. This is about understanding the mindset of where a celebrity is coming from. The author has to explain the bad, the wealth and privilege, so you understand her journey. This book is a little less funny but a little more real and in touch as she discusses working through the repressed pain from her brother death and father subsequent absence. In this book the author acknowledges her bouts of out of touch reality in the recent past and struggles with finding herself and true meaning in life. All with that satirical slight self deprecating humor I have come to love from her books. I have read all the books of the author and ordered this one. Read it immediately in one sitting. I think the people that are off put by her touting her wealth is missing the point. We have eyes, we know she is successful. Quite the opposite I think she was trying to find out, while all of her success is great, why is not she still satisfied and at peace. The author is honest and genuine. Although she goes into depth about serious and intimate topics, she still keeps her conversational and humorous tone throughout the book. When I read it, I could hear her voice speaking the words. She stayed true to herself and her comedy while diving into deeper topics and personal stories than her other books. I felt like I was in the room with her in her therapy session. Much of the book is told through the interactions with therapist as the author makes discoveries about herself and who she is. This book felt much more like a memoir and a turning of chapter in the life of the author. I was not hysterically laughing quite as often, but I felt more connections to this story. The author is also an inspiration. She speaks for other strong women who have chosen not to have children and play by the old rules of the white privileged patriarchy. She decided it was time to dive deeper into and own her deep rooted childhood issues and sense of abandonment. Overall I liked the book, appreciate she is wanting to do better by becoming involved. I stopped reading most of the negative reviews and gave five stars to set off the reviewers who gave one star even though they did not read the book. Just because you do not like the author does not mean you should give something a bad review. It is true that this book is very much unlike all of the other books of the author. But the voice, the narration is still the same. This one is her best work so far. She is as funny and ruthless at picking on herself as she is with anyone else. I really enjoyed this book and I was prepared to just like it. I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to hear honest stories in a light and conversational tone. If I had to sum up the main point of the book, that could be talk less, listen more, empathize always.