The author feels the need to keep bringing up the fact that she is, apparently, the perfect organizer. She talks about herself entirely too much, and once I got the part about getting rid of all of my books I was like, I understand her concept that you should throw away anything that does not make you feel happy when you touch it, but some of her ideas are ridiculous. My review is for the workmanship and the lack of quality of the book itself and not the writing or the author. I find it comical that a book that prides itself on the magic of tidying up and art of not cluttering and organizing would use a company that would send such a terrible quality book to its customers. I waited an unusually long time for the book to be shipped, only to receive the worst quality hard cover book I have ever purchased. The printing on the spine, front and back covers is crooked. The book did give me a good idea about grouping like items together throughout the house to see how much you really have. Getting rid of everything you do not love can be a problem when it comes to practical items that you need. The ideas the author presents are generally sound and helpful, but this thing is so repetitive. Feels like the author took a magazine article and turned it into a book by repeating herself incessantly. I do believe tidying can be life changing. I do believe it is valuable to reduce all your clutter and consumption of material goods to things that actually bring you joy. The core ideas work. But this book does not bring much joy. It is pretty tiresome. The attitude of aiming for perfection was not for me. The idea that this had to be an all or nothing project, done from start to finish within months, was incompatible with my own life. And I think most people do not have a few months to devote to her method. I would say the author feels like you should throw almost everything away. It is good to be reminded that we do not need a lot of stuff, but I can not quite go to that extreme. However, if you take what you like and put some of her ideas into practice, it can still be helpful. I must be honest, I will probably use maybe ten percent of it. The rest of it was just plain weird. The content is very redundant even within the same section. I think this book could have been a very good pamphlet. This book is poorly written and drags on. Complete waste of money. I could not get into the writing style and only read the bold font. I found it very hard to concentrate on the message because it felt very childish. I know different cultures look at things differently but this book does not seem to fit the usual every day working person. The author is an advocate of throwing away anything that you do not love. Please either have a yard sale and make a little money or donate it to a place that will give you a tax write off.