The author must have gotten in a hurry to publish and stopped writing about a third of the way through this book. I purchased the book as it promised to get into the details of what would become the Trump transition fiasco. Well after getting into it the book it ends up pandering to big government bureaucrats. While I feel there were likely issues with the Trump transition I just do not appreciate this author. I personally feel government is too big and impacts too much of our daily lives and the unaccountable agencies like to perpetuate their existence. The author started out pointing out significant disruptive issues with President Trump transition team but somewhere along the way he lost his train of thought. He transitioned to championing the good works of some significant unsung heroes in various government agencies and ended the book without making a point. I have read several of books of this author and have liked them all, but not this one. The book ended so abruptly with no summing up that I spent some time exploring whether my copy had been digitally truncated or something. The author is a good writer. And what I read interested me and pulled me along, but no final chapter, no summing up. My guess is that this book is a classic example of what often happens with good writers. I did finish it and found it did not really conclude, just ended. I really thought this book would have a summation. It seems tacked on to a book about something else. Then suddenly we are at the various agencies learning a lot. The author so hates the president that all he really does is show a few great things that the government does and imply that because of the change in administration there will be no more great things done. These anti Trump books are so played out. I would have expected this kind of writing to be beneath the author. I guess not though. Maybe he needed the money. We all know this theme sells which is why everyone and their dog is writing one. The worst part is that a fair amount of the information he opted to include in this book makes me seriously question the non fiction aspect of his other books. This book is rambling and makes little sense, like many who dislike President Trump, the author can not come up with anything truly valid, and this story ends with a long drawn out tale about how great the weather service is and how people should place more faith in the government. He tries to make the case that Trump and his administration are incompetent and do not have a clue during the transition process. Again, very disjointed and straining to make a case but falling far short. Even if you are a leftist there is nothing for you to learn here that you have not already gotten.