I had great hopes of this book, but was very disappointed. The experiments and tests were so open to bias and the conclusions sweeping or not grounded in what had been established by the tests that the book lost all credibility for me. This book was written from a point of view that environments control everyone destiny. Although I agree that environments have great influence on a majority of peoples lives, the author does not explore all the true outliers that do not meet his hypothesis. Obviously the author selected certain situations that fit his premise. I have to preface this by saying I am a psychologist, and have taught psychology. The understanding of the value of both the study and psychological testing is so poor, that it is clear that the author only used this information to make his point. As a scientist, and someone who looks at statistics daily, I am underwhelmed by assigning validity to a phenomenon without having a control group against which to compare the results. The author fails at this, and I feel he is making conclusions based on personal emotional attachment to his family history. This book is less a complete concept and more a hypothesis with an incomplete examination of his thesis. The author argues that success is shaped by the environment we grow up in as much as any innate skills and knowledge we have. While I buy into his argument, his approach of substantiating his position with a few select examples is rather weak. I could easily find counter examples for each one he presents. While the concept is intriguing and some interesting facts are revealed, the the author is long winded in some areas. If you have been looking for inspiration on how to become an outlier, look elsewhere. The first half of the book was very intriguing. Following the path of some of the most successful people in the world to see how it happened is very interesting. The latter part starts off fascinating, finishes off kinda weak and slows to crawl. I read the story and I thought it was an interesting book but there were parts that I found pretty boring. I did feel like I learned a lot throughout the book and was able to take away a lot, which was the point of the assignment. But there were chapters of the book I found very hard to concentrate because it was not very interesting. I felt like the book started out interesting, which I liked, but then towards the middle I found myself actually dozing off when the author talked about certain topics I was uninterested in. The book is an easy and enjoyable read, although towards the last third of the book, it seems like he ran out of things to say and digresses away from the main point of the book. I can appreciate this book. However, from the perspective of a researcher in psychology. I am not crazy about it.