The author talks about how physicians respond to terminally ill patients and uses his personal experiences working with his father and his father doctors to provide examples for us. This is a difficult subject to write about but I found it enlightening and inspiring in some ways. The author is speaking about sickness, age and death. The changes in life expectancy and medical treatments have been remarkable but a grounded way of dealing with loss of functioning that comes with injury or illness or just aging is not in most of our cultural attitudes. There have been some heroic efforts made to improve senior living but often times the impersonal assumptions are dehumanizing even in a good senior independent living site. The author presents examples from around the world and past times supporting death with dignity. Not everyone is blessed with insight, nor the financial ability to accommodate the decent of an elderly person. The only problem that I find with this book is that individual cases are developed too detailed to my taste and one piece of the story here and some others after fragments of other people stories have begun. The book contains good advice and is well intended. However, it tends toward triteness, since it expresses ideas that most reasonably intelligent and educated people in our society already know. This book is an academic piece about embracing hospice and other more humane, non extraordinary measures in the West. But it is not helpful to read while going through the dying process with a loved one. I did not find what I was looking for based on the title and notes. Maybe I am looking for answers no one has. The subject matter is limited to what it is like being in hospice. Disappointed. I had expected that he would provide more information on alternatives to aging in place or in non residential environments. The vast majority of this book is about people who are terminally ill and die. This topic is both timely and relevant in today culture, where the new millennial will likely be even less concerned with the ultimate fate of their aging family members. I though this book had some informative anecdotal stories about people and how they lived there final years. I also like the personal discussion of family and how they confronted mortality. But all in all, it was a fairly predictable and obvious story. I wish the author would have concentrated more on the conversation and the questions to ask rather than the struggles when there is not a conversation or we do not know the questions to ask. I would have appreciated more reference information to groups pioneering in this area instead of all the articles he read.