First off, I understand that people who have been targeted by narcissists are angry, and might gravitate toward this book title. However, the book itself is actually fairly thorough, well balanced, and not as based on emotion. This book addresses the complexities of both narcissistic behaviors, and the behaviors of people who are targeted by them. I picked up this book to help myself understand more clearly what was going on about my divorce. Fantastic job at explaining the dynamics behind narcissism, what difficulties to expect and perspectives to take on to assist in healing. It goes beyond surface level and helps you understand not only the situation, but yourself and how to move forward. The book described my wife exactly as she was, and helped me realize that the decision I was was the right one. Narcissism is a disease, spreading very quickly in modern society. To counter that, the book does a great job giving you suggestions what to do in order to escape from the deadly trap of a narcissist. Reading this book has been life changing for me. I have a long way to go to recovery, but this book will most definitely be part of that journey for me. Thank you to the author for keeping things like this in an easy to understand read. My mind has been awakened. I opened this book and ran through the checklist of behaviors and saw so many things that explain the relationship with my coworkers living in a narcissist regime. This book lays out some clear and concise advice along with steps to help the journey. I am glad now to finally have the information provided in this book to let these narcissistic people go and to be happy that they are moving on from my life. I am glad the author has actually got an in depth understanding of the narcissist and how to defeat them. I am actually worthy of love and respect regardless of what they actually said about me. All I can say is this is an excellent book, and anyone and everyone who is interested in this subject should hold up and read this second. I would recommend this to anyone who wants to really know what narcissism is all about. I absolutely devoured this book. The advice was practical and extremely valuable. After reading, I was so motivated and I can say this book initiated my self love journey. This is a great book to enlighten your understanding. This book is a must read for anybody who has a narcissist in their life. I read it cover to cover in a day and intend to go back through to highlight and mark pages.