A very enjoyable book about a man who thought he was living the American Dream but feels something is missing from his life. He is also a man who admits that since a boy he has been afraid of everything. He decides to take a journey, walking across America, from California to North Carolina, with no money and a backpack. This is one of the most outstanding, memorable books I have encountered in a long life of manic reading. That is why I was flabbergasted when the man came out flat footed and admitted that the idea of traveling in the South terrified him. Starting in the Northwest, the author trusted his life to strangers without regard to race, creed, color, or teeth to tattoos ratio, but the prospect of crossing the Mason Dixon Line made him go weak in the knees. This book was better than I anticipated, largely due to the writer nonjudgmental observations of those he met. He seemed to find the likable qualities in almost everyone. It was also interesting to see how cathartic it appeared to be for strangers to tell another stranger about their past wounds as if they had been waiting for the time they could unburden themselves of their past hurts and have someone only listen and acknowledge their pain. The author was a journalist who traveled all over the world before he decided to chuck it all and walk penniless across America. He finds that the people with the least to give are the ones picking him up and allowing him to stay in backyards or spare bedrooms. It was very interesting that a few towns interviewed him for the paper and he even gave speeches to church congregations and school children. We cringed at some of the characters and close calls with trouble, but most of the time we were touched and inspired by the kindness shown, especially by many of the strangers who had lost a lot in their lives. Each one of them affected the author for the better. Many of them told him much about their lives. The author honestly expressed the emotions he experienced interacting with these people. I like to be inspired in a realistic way. What was even more fascinating then the accounts of how he cleverly managed to stay safe and keep moving, was the way strangers let him into their lives so readily and so casually. I could not put this book down and finished it in one day. It is the most uplifting, phenomenal book I have ever read. I am only sorry that it is over. I learned so much about myself from reading this book. I am so grateful to the author for having the courage to bare his soul and relate the experiences of his journey. This book has renewed my faith in the human race. Could not wait to turn the page to discover, who next would be a kind stranger. It is a shame that the writer just missed going to California, but made comments, in a kind of negative way. I am one of those who helps others, asking nothing in return. The author fell among many good people and observed what I also have observed. Those who have little with help you with all they have, while many of those who have much and could help more will not lift a finger nor give a crumb to those in need. It is a commentary of our times. I found it sad that so many people across our country are dealing with so many troubles, but beautiful to see so many who had so little giving what they had. I am curious now wondering did the author growing his faith after meeting so many Christians, and how did it change his life. An excellent read.