We all like to be fooled but with facts feels much better. Our ignorance about the world is measured here with fact questions. So the author is exploring the limitations of our carbon based computer to measure our ignorance worse than random. The methodology is bad but the book gets better, reusing his own argument about the world. Naive and narcissistic. First the authors ask you not to trust in average values alone. A few pages later they present only averages, without any ranges or confidence intervals, simply because it suited their preaching. Seriously, I want to like this book. I like numbers, numbers are important, we need much greater numbers literacy among everyone in order to regularly audit our corporations, our politicians and make sure that their priorities are really our priorities, and that they are executing those priorities on the up and up without cooking the books. Our fear of numbers are a huge part of how we got into the mess that we are in. But this is not an academic book because of the lack of references to be able to follow up on the claims. It always bothers me when the reference is a web page and the date of the page is the date the page was viewed, not written. Statistics about good news is hard to come by. The authors liken climate change skeptics to plane crashes, toxic waste, and crazy dictators. Predictions are not facts, but the authors think the predictions made by climate change models are facts. There are good reasons to be skeptical of climate models, not the least of which is that they run too hot. And the field of climate science has been politicized. The authors did purposely those errors which they blamed others. The author presented himself as such great scientist that I needed to go and see his academic publishing records. The book has no depth, there is nothing here that will make you think or reflect about anything, that would not have happened anyway by browsing and playing with the gap minder website. The stories are superficial, the insights are so elementary, that it makes the book look like a sort of self help advice. While this book purports to explain that most people are wrong about how awful the world is, the author quickly states that well over half of humanity is living in abject poverty. Perhaps this is a big improvement over the last couple of millennial, but it is a staggering fact taken on its own. I also felt that the review of cataclysmic thinking and journalism was a bit willfully naive. The main thesis of the book that the world is improving and is much better than what most people think is of marginal use at best. Following the idea about our successful situation, the author presents a popular cognitive psychology about our inappropriate instincts that are responsible for this failure to perceive the right situation and suggests some common sense rules how to overcome these instincts. One can pick almost any point in history and find a previous point where the condition was worse. Furthermore, by choosing to focus attention solely on specific, statistical improvements, the author precludes discussion of statistical regression or analysis of negative outcomes not measured by statistics.