The author provides brilliant and compelling narrative and analysis of events, wars, and leaders that have shaped our nation. This is one of the best books I have ever read. The author does a great job of explaining how Presidential power has shifted through times of war and throughout the history of the United States. I am not disappointed in the book but the book sort of left me disappointed in the American people for tolerating the current situation, in which the United States has become just like the European great powers of the eighteenth century whose example the Founders strove to avoid. The one way in which the book could have been improved would have been with a greater focus on characters, who ended wars they inherited even in the absence of clear victory, a skill sadly lacking in contemporary Presidents. For greats like Lincoln and Roosevelt, the author finds flaws there and manages to reveal their greatness in ways that feel fresh. If nothing else, Presidents of War calls out for the importance of Congress reasserting its role and insisting on it. If anyone reads history anymore and some days I doubt it. I would highly recommend this book. The author does his usual excellent job of making history come alive. His major theme throughout the history is that we have continually increased the power of the executive branch of government. The author makes the point that presidents are influenced on many sides, some not having the country best interests at heart. I enjoyed the book overall. This book provided an in depth overview of the challenges war time presidents have faced. This book was what I consider to be a hard read. It takes a lot of concentration to fully digest the reading material. The author brings us into the White House to watch each of the presidents who presided over Americas wars as they struggle with managing their wars. What we learned in history classes in high school really cleaned up these president handling of war. This book was ten years in the making. As the author states in his acknowledgments he discovered that writing about nine presidents of war required that he research each president as if writing a book on each one. So, this is a book of nine mini biographies pertinent to each president of war. It is thoughtful and filled with new information. Definitely read the footnotes. They add dimension to each president, some serious and some quite humorous. This book gave insight into the personalities and concerns of the presidents dealing with our wars. There is occasional reference to historical events and the book tells us background of decisions made by presidents during wars.