I have read all the books of this author. I was really looking forward to this one, but it was a disappointing. Very little new material. I hope the author does not become one of those authors who start writing the same stuff over and over again. This one is very political. White guilt, political rants, weird ramblings, recycled, irrelevant research, disjointed writing. Best I can tell this book aspires to be a guide for surviving when your political candidate loses. The book is about not judging others and getting politically polarized. It is just not what I thought I was going to be reading about. I bought this book because the author was interviewed on Morning News. She is impressive but the book is not. She writes over and over again about research but her research is investigating such nebulous terms as true belonging or integrity without presenting what researchers typically do. The author tries to associate loneliness and not fitting in to the current political climate, with a very sided perspective. Most of the tangents she goes on do not even tie back to the original theme of the book. I guess the beginning just ruined it for me and I definitely would not recommend this book to anyone. I do not know the whole book was just way too liberal and scheduled for me to actually respect it. Unfortunately, what was showcased as a self help book for how to stand on your own, actually turned out to be a politically biased, opinionated novel lacking real data and facts. I had to stop halfway in because this book simply did not resonate. My takeaway is that one needs not to be afraid to speak out and speak up own beliefs. Speaking out can bring you to a lonely place but one would be surprised to find other people in the same situation. Half of the book is simply other famous people stories, very few stories of actual participants, save one memorable, one about a guy berating his father right after he promised to be kinder to him. The rest of book is completely uncharacteristic of depth and wisdom and feels really shallow and overly politicized. I feel this book was rushed, the data did not really know as well, and the point was missed. I found this book to be useless. I have watched some of talks and found them inspirational, so I bought this book. And really, I get that the author struggled as a child and found success, but most of us will not find our calling. No help, comfort or good advice here, just her broad view on how to deal with a world getting harder and harder to live in happily. I found much of the content in this book old and stale and carefully packaged to create a surface level sense of safety. This book implies the wilderness which is a new phenomenon when in reality people of color have had to navigate all the things the author describes for generations. The author introduces concepts like authenticity and courage from a very shallow perspective and provides tips that are often either confusing or insulting.