I would not recommend this audio book. The layout seemed disorganized, I did not feel like I had a clear idea on how to proceed with any of the advice. The whole time I listened to the book, and it said that the whole book was zero seconds in length. No way to see how long the book actually is, or how far in I am. There are plenty of things circled and underlined that are good things. The only part where I crossed things out and wrote no was that the author implies that the ends justify the means. It starts off innocently enough, with ignoring rules that were designed to keep you down but quickly moves into asking forgiveness instead of permission. The author gives us instruction after instruction on how best to conduct our lives and achieve our goals. I guess we should walk around with a scroll of these instructions and constantly be reviewing it. The key themes of the book is quite good, but they can be clearly summarized in just a few sentences. It seems like the author is getting paid by the number of pages written. Overall good message and definitely some of the points made were good reminders to say, not let your perception of what you can do limit what you actually do, but nothing here is particularly insightful. However, there is nothing new here and I think one could go directly to the writings of the ancient stoics for the same information. The tone is very focused on promoting modern busy culture instead of stepping back from it. More like a book to help you use Stoic techniques to do better at what you are already doing instead of figuring out what is really important. I am having a hard time getting into this book. It is written with so much enthusiasm and emotion, that it is an obstacle to wanting to continue on with reading it. The preface and introduction are written like a Tony Robbins motivational seminar, which I was not expecting. I was hoping for something with more meat and less fluff as the book has been billed. I really expected to like this book. The author begins by promising the reader that it will not be a book full of meaningless platitudes, and then proceeded to fill the book with them. I did read the whole book, and for the life of me I can not see how this book would be helpful to all of the people, organizations, and teams that apparently got so much out of it. This book is indeed full of meaningless platitudes, and to me seems to be written by repeating concepts in different ways to stretch a paragraph into a page, a page into a chapter, and ultimately, a chapter into a book. I really had to struggle to get all the way through it. And overall, the book espouses a kind of new thought positive psychology bent, which is fine as far as that goes. But it tends to step into emotionally dismissive waters with some regularity. You should simply be able to not react with negativity. Perhaps some of these are laudable aspirations, but the representations here suggest that achieving them is a far simpler matter than it really is for most people. That is probably why the book has sold well.