The characters are rough around the edges with a desperate longing for a place to call home. The story takes place in California where day laborers find their way from ranch to farm making money to survive. George and Lenny find their way to yet another job to escape the trouble. Despite their struggles, the two men maintain hope and optimism that their hard work will eventually resolve their difficult life. The language used in the book is indicative of the characters historically and socioeconomically. The book highlights the relationship and journey of two migrant workers. Throughout the novella the reader gets an impending sense of doom. As the reader learns more about the two protagonists, the author clearly shows the themes of friendship and loyalty as George continues to stay with Lenny even through Lenny is such a burden. These basic themes hold true throughout the entire book even in the end when a shocking turn of events is caused by an act of sympathy and care for a friend. What you could see through the whole story was the character George would not allow anyone to harm Lenny no matter what he may have done wrong. George also had a power of control over Lenny that Lenny did not even have over his own decisions. Lenny made several big mistakes along the way. But one could only expect that George could only hide so many before the day would arrive when Lenny would have to pay for his own actions and that is exactly where this story takes us the journey is exciting and, sad. I walked away feeling the story ended as it should. There could be no more victims without the blame being passed to George in the end. The author writes this book with a tone somewhere between matter of fact and poetry, mayhem and contemplation, and philosophy and comedy. The characters are as interesting, amusing, and heart breaking as its story lines. The book wanders from person to person between the bigger story arcs, giving little but rich glimpses of life. The author is pretty honest with how people act and do what they do, and although their characterizations sometimes teeter towards comical, the book never oversteps the line into absurdity. Back in college, I was not impressed with the book. It was too sentimental, too black and white in its themes, and too short on the social significance of greater works. Revisiting after the past few decades was a revelation. Scenes and characters that made me roll my eyes suddenly had new relevance to me. What once seemed sentimental was now reverence for the common man. If you are open with your kids, reading this great book to your kids. We laughed and cried out loud together, even my son who will deny it wholeheartedly was crying his eyes out. Great experience. This is a short story that took me from curiosity to oh my goodness in two sentences. It has some twist and carries a solid plot to the end. This is by far one of the most odd and interesting books I have ever read. Short, direct, and without unnecessary flair, the author writes in the style but makes the book somehow more perfect. The directness transports you and you simply are there. The author had a way of grabbing my attention. Also to make me look at my own emotions, the way I think, and how I react toward others. I highly recommend this book for a short story and to find a sense of hope.