The book is okay. More than anything it confirms what many people learn over time, you need to save money in order to have money. The rub is the how to do that. This book is helpful in that regard and earns four stars. It loses one of those stars for the chronic editing problem with illustrations. I like the data oriented approach of this book, author clearly supports his hypothesis with data. The topics are very superficial and I can not be surprised to see nothing about mortgage. If you look past how dated the book is, it is a very interesting assessment and will certainly help you understand the differences between high income earners and the frugal self employed person who squirrels away millions. The author breaks the myth that people that drive high end cars and buy nice houses and clothing and houses are the rich. He proposes that the real rich, are those that work hard, live simply and frugally, and save their money. The authors make the powerful and important point that wealth is not always identified by fancy cars or houses. Most of the truly wealthy live beneath their means. And that is basically this book in a nutshell, and a very valuable lesson to learn. Unfortunately, the book becomes very repetitive. Some of it seems to be poorly organized and hops from topic to topic within a chapter. Often the writing displays sloppy reasoning. And finally, the research underlying their book has some serious methodological flaws. But, a couple of weeks ago I found in a bookstore a recent version of this book with updated statistics. Much more useful. However, as a millennial investor, everything in this book was either outdated or painfully obvious. The whole point of the book is to show that wealthy people live among us, and we should live below our means. This book is the epitome of an outdated text that is only famous because it was the first of its kind. It is also dreadfully boring. I honestly can not figure out what angle the authors were going for. There is really no reason for this book to be as long as it its. Not that it is incredibly long, but the whole book could easily be summed up in less than ten pages. It is very repetitive, and chalked full of filler, explaining the same thing over and over again. Here is my one sentence summary of the book. The typical millionaire owns their own business, is married, drives a used car, lives well below their means, and is very modest with their wealth. The book is helpful for those who need a push to live more frugally in order to become higher accumulators of wealth rather than spending everything they make. The bullet points about how millionaires live should not be quoted. I would like to still recommend this book as a reminder of what it means and takes to be a millionaire. It is a tough book to read and gets more difficult towards the end.