This book is so important for the national discussion. And, this book is a great contribution to the actual history of the United States. In addition, the truth told by the author is the truth of all of America since his perspective is from the viewpoint of the Indians when Columbus landed. This is a must read. It presents history of farmers, slaves and factory workers in a way that is different, more human, and more believable than what we were taught by the public schools. America has significantly deteriorated over the years, there are millions of Americans living on the streets homeless while the estimated eighty seven percent Christian population worries more about foreign relief and their own selfishness and hatefulness. The author does a great job recreating historical scenes using lots of sources to communicate what is was like for the Indians and Africans. I love the discussion on progress and the explanation for racism. The discussion of interracial relationships show the attraction of individuals, but the social norms and laws prevented it. It can be difficult to read because of the savagery, but it is a page turner for sure. Probably the only history book I read where I was not bored to tears. Written from the point of view of the common man, this is not just a stale recording of dates and facts. The author breathes into the dusty corridors of the past and gives them life. The intricate tapestry of the development of the United States, its principles, flaws, attempts at greatness. Not only has my personal knowledge been enriched by this compelling book, but I bought a copy for my son. We have since enjoyed many spirited discussions thanks to author. This book should be read by everyone. This is the history schools did not teach in my time. From the beginning of European occupancy of this continent to relatively recently it explains how our culture and government have imposed on people. It reveals the abuse of power and wealth and the manipulation of the general public by the few so the abuse can continue. Those negative comments tend to be from the people who prefer their history sanitized and glorified because it makes them feel more patriotic. This is not a history book in the normal sense. It is more a smattering of the history of various movements over the course of the United States. This book has simply reconfirmed in my mind how the middle and working classes have been manipulated by the oligarchs, with the help of organized religion, throughout history. I must admit this book made me so sad and angry about what the pursuit of profit led our European ancestors to do. I teared up reading some of the horrible atrocities that were carried out by imperialists. I have included some informative picture of the book as well. Overall, the book is excellent and I highly recommend it to everyone. The author was my mentor, and my friend. Do not buy a summary. Read the book. I still have the textbook he assigned me.