This is a marvelous book for real students of human history, especially the history from thousands centuries ago. I was searching for a world history book that would condense the most significant events into one volume. Although I have only read one third of the book, it seems to me a little dense and scientific. It does not read as a novel but rather as a scientific approach towards civilization. There are sections in this book which are thought provoking and interesting to listen to. If only the author would condense his fascinating information, without needlessly listing out every single detail for hours on end on things this book would be outstanding. As is, it is very difficult to pay attention and that is because some areas are so terrible boring. This a an excellent book and clarifies much of the reason why Europe and the West prevailed in history, rather than say Africa or America. Basically the author argues eloquently that geography and luck of the draw food resources and animals explain much of the winners success in history. The author is a well formed, well researched argument. However, I believe that he turns a blind eye to the major effects that different religions and cultures have had on the success of their people. His request for further study using more scientific means is welcomed. This realistic account of Human Movement from Man beginnings serves up a platter which is way too seasoned for the palates of a lot of us simple folks. This author must be some genius to have all of this confusing info containing some strange speculative, packed into just one brain. My sole critic of the book stems from the authors tendency to repeat his conclusions over and over. The net result is some sort of circular logic to tie the chapters together. The book could have been much more effective and readable without the repetition. For someone looking for a brush up on world history from a broad perspective, this book would seem technical and even boring at some points. There is also the constant referral to New Guinea in almost every significant aspect of the book, no doubt attributable to the field work performed by the author on this particular place. It seems that it obscures the objectivity of world history by his specific findings and subjective conclusions. The writing style makes it an easy book to read. But the major problem I have with the book is it should have been half as long. Page after page is devoted to sideline discussions and irrelevant facts that are not important to the main theory being presented. Adding to the tedium, are numerous repetitions of material. This may be due to the difficulties of organizing such a mammoth topic but I mostly blame poor editing. If you can make it through the long unnecessary drawn out parts, the interesting parts are well worth it and eye opening. If anyone knows why some nations advanced ahead others, it is this book. If you want to learn about why human development proceeded at such different rates on different continents then read the book.