Excellent overview of the sorry history of our war on drugs, related issues of racism, and how they have interacted to keep our black communities down. This is a must read for anyone who think they know or understand about the racial caste system that has been going on since the days of slavery and the changes, that has been put in place to legally hide it yet right out in the open. So we become blind to what the legal justice system is and has always done to people with black and brown skin along with a few poorer white people that can not afford to escape it themselves. In an era where blatant overt racism is anathema in American society, the author explores the truth that we have not ended racial caste in America. Mass incarceration is the embodiment of this new racial caste and in many ways it is the new and improved Jim Crow. I thought that new Jim Crow was an exaggeration, used purely for effect. The book makes a compelling case that this is in fact a reality. The writing does get rambling and repetitive at points. A more careful editing would have earned it a fifth start in this review. As important as understanding the parallels to the historical Jim Crow era is acknowledging what is different about this incarnation because the moral imperative of its dismantling requires new understanding. Perhaps an analogy in the world of biology is helpful. This new incarnation is in some ways like an evolved virus resistant to the treatments that have worked before. This book exposes the truth of how the system is tilted too incarcerate young African American men. A perfect example is how illegal drugs charges are handled in this country, with the crack cocaine epidemic the solution was incarceration. With the opined epidemic, the solution is drug rehabilitation and treatment centers, both are drugs are horrific and have had traumatic effects on our society. This book opened my eyes. There are many powerful statements in this book but here are a few that stuck with me. This is a stunning book. Its implications for the men who are directly affected, but also for their families and for our communities, are so serious that I think the book should be required reading for every police department in the country. But in addition, everyone needs to be aware of what is happening. We literally cannot afford the ignorance of a situation that is devastating so many lives. We need to read the book. It is a careful and thorough appraisal of the situation, well and thoroughly documented. I pray that enough well meaning people of all races in the USA read this well thought out book and are as deeply moved by it as I am. This was not an easy read for me. But I needed a wake up call especially given the current racial climate of the country. I encourage people to read this as it is valuable in every aspect for people interested in a deeper understanding of the plight of the male African American. It is harsh and unflinching and devastating. America has to figure out how to root out racism and allow us all to live together equally and peacefully in my opinion. Great read for me. Without a doubt, this is one of the most exhaustively researched books I have ever read. I cannot recommend this book highly enough. It should be required reading for all voters.