This is a book that unites what has been foolishly separated. Biological science and indigenous plant knowledge. Our relationship to the earth and our treatment of it including the modern world and the traditional, words and actions, giving and receiving. I love the poetic prose and the connection to the woods and landscapes. The author poetically blends the intimate and often spiritual knowledge of her ancestors about the natural world with today scientific knowledge. Her combination of perspectives greatly enriches the understanding of wild plants, trees, the whole natural world. The author explores many places in her professional and community connections but comes full circle back to New York. She took me home to Ohio in many ways, roaming woods, learning plants from my mother, watching the seasonal changes with cattails, harvesting wild berries and nuts, appreciating the multiple generations of family gardens and orchards. Some chapters are like hearing the voice of a beloved aunt read favorite family stories. Others are packed with botany and scientific research. I loved this book and wish that if only we could have learned from them to treat the earth gently, to take what we needed, use what we took and preserve and appreciate the earth gifts, give the earth thanks with a reciprocal gift. The book is like putting pieces back together after a big storm or disaster. I was drawn in by the idea of science meeting tradition. I was not disappointed. The depth is easy to miss if you just read this through like a novel or if you get bogged down in the scientific terms and language. It can be rather dense but I encourage readers to take it slow and not to skip or skim over. Pay attention to what the author is really saying, because each word is crafted for a purpose and a very powerful message. In this way the book, and then the message, become a treasure of incalculable worth. I savored the pages rather than swallowing chapters whole because I needed to allow each message to soak into my bones. The author, the excellent writer, an indigenous American woman and botanist, integrates science and ancient wisdom to show us a way forward in a world where we have forgotten our duty. She does not teach us as much as she breaks our hearts open so we can remember what we have known all along. Bless this work and may conservation win. Only thing I did not like about this book was the fact that it was not produced consciously, meaning no low impact dye for text of recycled paper, little hypocritical considering the contents. But the book was so good I can overlook this error. This book changed and enriched the way I look at the natural world. We have to come to our senses, heal our dialogue with our planet, and the great good sense of this book can help. There are so many memorable phrases. This book is a must read in getting back to our connection with nature. Highly recommend to any person who has even a modicum of passion for any of those items mentioned above.