Wonderful sequel to her first book. Ignore the negative reviewers, who think this is the same material, but it is not. This book is a great motivator if you want to finally get control over your home and make it enjoyable to be in. The author breaks the process into different sections according to type of items, rather than a room by room approach as most of these types of books do. It really helped me to detach of all those things I was hanging to them because I felt I really need the sentimental feeling they cause around me to be completely happy and realized in my life. I really got to understand that some things makes me really happy, and some many others do not and I do not need to hang to everything I got or I have. This book answers the questions raised by the first one, and goes into much more detail about each category. I am still impressed by the writing style, which is clear and highly enjoyable, giving the reader a sense of intimacy. I started reading this book as a reference book. I would read about how to fold shirts and go to my shirt drawer to fold and organize. I would read a little and work a little bit. It has taken me awhile, and there is still lots to do. The methods work. The author also explains how to decide what to keep and what to discard. That is often a difficult process. I shall keep this book on my reference shelf. I shall return to it over and over. Especially helpful are the last chapters about why we buy, collect and save items. This book really is the Master Class. In addition to talking about how to decorate or finish the space, the author also talks about what to do with things you need that do not necessarily spark joy. She shows examples of how to store and talks about folding methods that she either did not mention or were not completely clear to me in the first book. It is a practical guide to implementing the concepts outlined in the first book. There is no constant repetition in the first book, but there are still plenty of relevant anecdotes to illustrate the points. I also found the guidance to be a little more mainstream. And, it covers a much larger area of the house. I have changed many of my habits with help from this book. I have organized my kitchen to run more efficiently. I have rid the kitchen of all the extra cooking utensils I had and did not use. I have learned how to fold my clothes better and therefore have more organized drawers and closet. I feel less cluttered. And as the book says it is really not about organization and spending money on cute organizing tools, it is about having less. The writer of this book understands people like me, wrote about me, and helped me to become joyful in letting go of things I no longer wore, to get organized in a way I looked forward to, and I am very grateful to her. If you need someone to prod you into changing a bad habit, and to do something you are reluctant to do, the writer does it it in spectacular fashion. Life changing for my husband and I physically and mentally. Now we have organized things in categories and I automatically return things back to its assigned home. This book helps us to make our life goals clear and rid of unnecessary things around us. It is truly a magic. Highly recommended for couples and family to read together. I found myself highlighting quotes over and over. The journey it takes you on as you begin to confront yourself and your belongings goes much deeper than material things. Thank you for sharing your tidying and life wisdom.