This book predicts the future of humanity, yet most of the book is about the past. The first part of the book talked about the future, and then the book turned to the past. Half the book is about human history, where the trends of the past are used to make very provocative predictions for the future. The author is so interesting, and history comes alive and is relevant. If you have strong views on religion and the meaning of life, this book might challenge you in uncomfortable ways. Readers should not look to this book as a prognostication of what is next. Instead, as the author tries to make clear, it is a litany of possibilities for the future of humanity. Many of these futures are possible, none is guaranteed. The author is a historian who liberally dabbles in many areas of expertise, including some where he is less knowledgeable such as artificial intelligence and gene therapy. And, there is a very honest look at what is coming down the pike for us as humans and what has already pretty much gone down the drain. I believe we will start paying the check now and pretty soon. I think the ship is too big to turn at this point. Author presents multiple scenarios of directions humans will take. Perhaps we will engineer ourselves to become immortal, but only the wealthy will be able to afford to have themselves adapted. The rest of us would be out of luck. Also author discusses artificial intelligence and potential to take over our species. I loved the thought provoking ideas in this book and it is hard to put down book. The authors forced me to reevaluate the way I see the world and what I imagined for its future. But there is still a flaw that in terms of the commendable efforts to make complex ideas simple and understandable, the author occasionally simplified things way too much in a way that often was self serving. This book is too speculative. The author is still a very knowledgeable person, and you can still learn a lot. Also just like in his former book, it is not hard to tell what is an opinion and what is knowledge. Just like the former book he also makes a lot of provocative opinions. The main problem with this book, is that while in a brief history of humankind each opinion is not heavily based on the former ones. The author redefines religion in terms of a widespread shared idea or commonality of view of society rather than a deity is the old way. Thus, humanism is the religion rather than Gods, or, rather, humans and their feelings and thoughts are what is valued rather than some older idea of God. Humanism then gets analyzed and subdivided into various types of humanism. From there, it goes on to discuss how human brains may just be designed as algorithms which could in the future be out done by computers with artificial intelligence. I finished this book with many more questions than when I started. Therefore, read it within a framework of possibilities, albeit well premised ones. We still live within a world that is largely market driven, but humans are the market and that means we still have the power to guide the conversation. Overall, the author writing style is perfect, clear sentences, well constructed paragraphs, and well structured chapters. The result is a great book which provides an amazing reading experience to the reader. The subject of the book is very interesting, the possible futures for humankind. The point of view is very well grounded on solid research. My recommendation is that do not pass this book and read it. Do yourself a favor and arm yourself with this knowledgeable treatise of our path as an evolving species.