This book is one of the best books I have ever read. The Author gives fantastic insight into how to deliver therapy in cases that appear to be beyond the abilities of the average therapist. It is evidence based and well researched, explaining the workings of scientific discoveries about nature or nurture and the brain in a way that people of all science levels will be able to understand. It also does an excellent job of interspersing true, disturbing stories of child neglect and abuse with hope and practical tips for helping those we encounter in our lives who may have experienced these horrible things. The author shows that by looking at parenting from many angles. It is possible to provide children with better environments, happier lives and more upstanding and productive lives as adults. The author also does an excellent job of telling each story while explaining the basic principles of psychology that apply to it, so that you are taking in some new information and seeing it in action. For me personally, this makes a huge difference in my ability to retain information. We adopted a little boy who displayed quite a few of the behaviors in this book. I followed my instincts, met him where he was emotionally, and encouraged him to grow. This book really confirmed for me that we did all the right things. I have highly recommended this book to other parents of post institutionalized children. Beyond the really applicable information, the writing is clear and not filled with incoherent psychobabble. It was heartbreaking to read about these children experiences with trauma at such young ages but what the author learned while treating them has been essential to what we know today about childhood trauma. I am grateful that the author included updates at the end of some of the chapters about the children. It provided a little hope and relief that some children who have these experiences can still recover. This was am emotionally difficult read but well worth it. This book is not a story about one boy, but is the excellent explanation of a child psychiatrist of a number of cases the author has dealt with and what he has learned from them about child development. It is fascinating reading for anyone who is interested in the effects of trauma on children or in brain development in general. Both easy to read and at the same time full of complexity, the author weaves narrative stories with research and academic knowledge in a very effective manner. The stories illustrate both the sadness of children who do not receive the attentive love they need, and the hope of effective interventions when we understand what is needed. The book is readable and valuable for both the lay person and the professional. The author is quite revealing and bold in his noble work. Not only in terms of the graphic details of his case studies, but of himself as well. Reading these chapters, one feels as if the author is accompanying this unconventional doctor on his journeys, his rounds, and his lessons learned. This is an academic work for sure and one that every professional who espouses compassion for others should read, no less than twice. The two cons I came upon were that, a few pages in a later chapter was confusing and I felt the book was short, rather I could have read an additional pages without losing the slightest interest on the topics discussed.