Most of us have heard the credo, you are not ready to live until you are ready to die. Unfortunately for nearly all of us, we do not heed these words until we hear the footsteps of the grim reaper outside of our bedroom door. Randy is no exception, until he was made aware of his own mortality and he lived his life as he had always lived it. He went to his center of learning, gave little recognition to those around him, continued to force the focus of professional attention on his accomplishments and, although married with children, viewed this precious part of his life viewed as being secondary to his other goals. The book is not a transcript. It was written as the author went on long bike rides and his author transcribed to the conversation. The most tangible, practical advice is contained in the time management section. When you have not got much time to live, you have not got any to waste, so here is a guy who knows the value of time management. Depending on what your expectations are from this book, you may be very satisfied or very unsatisfied after reading this book. I found the situation, in which this book was written, quite unique and therefore my expectations were quite high. The book chronicles the incidents in the life of Randy from childhood to the present and there are some good learning lessons or advice. I have been more interested in what goes through the mind when some one is facing their mortality, when life is being fast forwarded at breakneck speed, what advice Randy wants to give to his kids and so on. The best part was the amusing photos of the author sprinkled here and there, all of which reinforced a point he had made. Because of the way the book is organized, in the end I did not feel sadness or empathy about the early death because it seems he handled it all so well. The best impact of the book is to realize it is the people we impact that matter most after life is all said and done. However, sometimes too much hype precedes a book, and so it is with this one. When I began reading, it is not going to be better. I was not at all interested in most of the concepts. The book at the end has thoughts we can all aspire to. And I guess we all need reminders that life can be short and we ought to live every day lovingly and full of zest, and give thanks in whatever passes for our version of prayers. This is not a book. Taking the last lecture of Randy and stretching it out into a book just did not work. Granted, it is horrid to know that he is dying, and not unusual to have a feeling about sharing his experiences, life lessons, and hoping to make things easier for others that remain. But other than the lecture itself, the book is scattered and written by another and not very well. It is preachy, and too much on you should to be beneficial. That kind of second person drama does not work for me but obviously the majority of readers think differently. I was disappointed with this book. After reading all the great reviews, I was expecting an uplifting book, one suggesting ways to deal with terminal illness in a more positive way through the authors personal experience. So far, to me, the book is just an autobiography of the authors accomplishments, with a lot of namedropping of people from the technology industry.