I have been utilizing this book for my college speech course for the last two years. The students sit in a circle and discuss two or three chapters. I empower my students to teach each other and every day amazing things happen in the classroom. It is an enjoyable experience to walk into a classroom and have students excited to discuss the readings and participate in the class discussion readily. All of my students learn the basics of rhetoric and rhetorical analysis from this book. They appreciate the text boxes offering definitions, further explanations, or short anecdotes that appear in the margin of many pages, finding them both engaging and useful for their understanding. Most importantly, students enjoy reading this book and because the difficult and sometimes obscure concepts are explained in an engaging and humorous way. I have had students contact me after graduating to let me know that this book is either been a required text in one of their college classes or has proved helpful when not required. Although not all of my students agree with politics and some of my students are raised in religious homes, I have never received a complaint from parents or students about the examples used to illustrate rhetorical strategies. I am not really sure which category this book properly belongs, but it can be interesting and eye opening. This is a guide to rhetoric, otherwise called the art of persuasion. Rhetoric used to be taught in school, and the author argues that our country has been going downhill since it stopped. You get the sense that the author is trying to use his occasionally slightly manipulative tricks on you and it as well as the cultural references come off as a little bit tacky. It is a good book nonetheless. I enjoyed this book, even after the author said it was used as a textbook. There is a teaching guide that you can get to used with the book if you wish to study the subject in depth and actually use it in your life. It is not as dry as other textbooks. It actually is very easy reading for such an important subject. The author understands teenagers, and though this is as helpful as a textbook, it is written in a way that reaches the younger academic audience. He uses real world, funny, politically relevant, and engaging examples for every idea, and he creates explanations that have an almost storytelling style to them that keep teenagers engaged. I am always pleased with how much my students have learned about rhetorical purpose and appeals. They apply the concepts outlined in the book to another text, and it helps them understand when and how the secondary author is making claims. The author includes a variety of clues regarding the ways people persuade, and he writes in an accessible manner. The structure of the text is well organized and I love how he includes marginal notes for students to consider and practice on their own. At the back of the book, there is also a great section of practice and a glossary of all key concepts and terms. This book really has been the anchor to our study and a fantastic resource for my classes. Highly recommend.