This is just an absolutely amazing book. I love how this book clearly challenges you to find new ways to spark fire in your marriage. It pushed me to love my wife more by being a channel of God love. This book in my opinion should be a book for couples who have just gotten married that teaches newly married couples how to be married. For couples who have been married for many years, it is a book that will make yourself a better person and make your marriage much more stronger. I think for couples who have a bad marriage and are wanting to quit on their marriage, this book can rekindle their marriage and make it better and stronger than it was. My marriage suffered because I was a jerk, although we both shared issues. After many years, even the most committed marriage can become routine, paving the way to me, first emotions and demands. Take a really strong look in the mirror at yourself instead of blaming others or your spouse like I did. You might be very unhappy with what you really see in regards to what kind of man or woman you are. If you are really ready to be a different person, buy this book, love it, and live it. When you start, there is no excuse. Read it for forty days and do every single thing it says, whether or not its hard or not. What I learned. How to unconditionally love my wife. I am so grateful I took this leap of faith. This book made me look at marriage from another perspective and challenged me to live up to new standards. It has not been easy, but once I calmed down, I immediately dropped the blame, and worked through the incident. I assure you, thus is nit my usual loose cannon persona. Yes, it is Christian based. You might just find it comforting to talk to someone. I am not a big reader so I found the short daily chapters to very easy for me. My boyfriend and I are trying it as we are dating with intention of marriage. I absolutely love the change I am seeing within myself which ultimately is changing the way he reacts to me. I went into this book thinking he was the one who needed it more but I was corrected on day 1. It is teaching me to be kind and serve him without expecting anything back. He has told me he sees my efforts and it makes him want to be a better man. We have both slowed down on magnifying what the other person is not and are appreciating everything the other person has to offer. I am finding this book to be very helpful for myself, but also for examining current and past relationships. The program is remarkable. I am a very spiritual person and I truly believe this book would help any relationship. It teaches you how to let go of hurt by focusing on the needs of others instead of yourself. Truly a book of service in small steps toward finding greater love for others. Even if you are not a couple it is very helpful to read on your own. It gave me a greater insight into myself, my weaknesses and how to approach them in a more open minded godlike sense. This book helps people to remember what is truly important in life, and in my case helped save my marriage. It is most effective when you are putting your all into it, reading every single day, doing every task, and logging the results in the book. We are all imperfect and fall short, and this might help you respond and deal with things love and kindness, instead of bitterness and anger. You are never too old nor married too long to affect positive change in your relationship. Highly recommend.