I knew very little about Lee Miller before diving into this delightful debut novel. I have read previous books that have included glimpses into Lee Miller life in Paris in the 1930. This book, a well balanced novel with sensitive portraits of both Man Ray and Lee Miller, brought what I have read previously into one powerful story giving insight into this complex, talented and troubled woman. This book does not take as dark a turn, but it is still a perceptive look at how an artist and his muse who may also be artistic can wind up clashing both personally and professionally. I loved how it was structured, jumping to different eras in Lee Miller life to create a full and deeply nuanced portrait. I was immediately drawn in, not just by the exquisite language and the gift of storytelling. The author writes in such a way that you want to read the novel slowly to soak in her turns of phrases. It made me want to be there and converse with these people. I devoured this gorgeous book and the bohemian lifestyle of these artists and Miller complex transformation into a woman of her own that underlies it all. This book left me in tears on the last page and the impression of this novel is one I will carry with me for months and years forward. This is an engaging book and I certainly enjoyed it while I was reading it, but even when I was done, I found myself thinking back to the story, almost as if they were people I knew. Although I sometimes found myself wishing the author had chosen to center her story when she was a war correspondent, it seemed like that would have been a far more intriguing narrative to mainly focus on. How much is fiction and how much is fact is unknown but the book is absorbing and an enjoyable great read. Lee Miller was a renaissance woman and this eye opener of a book is right on time. I loved how it was structured, jumping to different eras in Lee Miller life to create a full and deeply nuanced portrait. I will certainly buy the next book. Highly Recommend.