This is a graphic memoir about WWII and Nazi, so powerful and emotional and eye opening. I am almost overwhelmed at the depth and intensity. A lot of the finest modern German authors have described the feeling that any picking at the surface reveals old wounds festering beneath, filled with unspoken pain. The author shows all of pain masterfully, taking us with her through the continuous waves of emotion that make up exploration of author. In the end, there is no easy solution, no happy end. But we do get to witness conversation snippets that fill us with hope that the journey is worth it, a sense that along with the guilt. It is a really heavy topic, but I found it awesome to experience the journey of self discovery, cool to be done in the graphic medium. This book was not a typical graphic novel. The book was written in a notebook, and there were even real photos to make it more real. Some of the images early on were too much to handle. Reading this book felt like peeking behind an unspoken curtain into some inkling of the thoughts. I was absolutely captivated for the author. The path she takes us through is a journey through modern Germany and into the darkest parts of the third Reich. I will share this digital advanced copy with my husband and hope to build the courage to share a copy with my father in law after publication. This was such a stunning book for me in that it affected me in a way I did not expect. I had never given much thought to how that time period affects modern Germans. The artwork and design is complemented by a powerful and poignant writing style. The use of photos, sketches, dried flowers, even images of medals and wood carvings, make this a rich tribute, a feast for the eyes, as if I was reading a personal accounts, illustrated with all the care you see in adept bullet journal aficionados. The scrapbook presentation lends itself so much to the delivery of the narrative that I cannot imagine the book in any other format. It is not so much what the book is about but it is more about the delivery. I recommend this book without any reservations, an absolute must read.