This excellent non fiction book reads like a novel and it is unbelievable on how it brings to life the politics and how incompetent we were in not seeing the Taliban rebuilt its hold on Afghanistan once it was defeated. Also our inability to help stabilize Afghanistan as our focus and resources changed to the war in Iraq. It will give you the inside story about what happened between the main characters. This book seems to be excerpts of information previously written about in newspaper articles cobbled together with additional background information to create the book. It is meticulously researched and thoroughly well written, providing an in depth, exhaustive history of the Afghanistan war. The book draws you from chapter to chapter easily and is told primarily from the opinion of the Department of State, not the military. A series of chronological episodes of characters and anecdotes all strung together, interesting as it invariably is. There are few surprise, nothing a person moderately interested in this subject would not already know. At the end of the book you get some snippets about the military part of the conflict. The strongest message is that no outsider can appreciate the complexities of ancient and modern tribal or ethnic beyond a few with high security clearances and impeccable integrity. Great book, if you want to understand how we got and continue to be engaged in the Middle East mess. I always enjoy this book as good as the others and I will be reading a lot more. With many of the names and players in these formative years of the Longest War still around and still ascending through the government ranks, this is an essential book to any student, policy maker or interested citizen seeking a deeper understanding of the situation. However, it is not an easy read. Major elements of the schizophrenic Pakistan story are omitted or treated superficially. The argument lacks the perspective that will benefit from a more balanced and comprehensive set of sources. The narrative seems disjoint, a timeline without plot rather than a coherent story. The illustration is also woefully lacking. Photos of erratic quality are included for only some key players. It is virtually pointless to try to understand regional conflicts without a close read. Moreover, The disappointments come from the arrogance to think that we can force our will onto other cultures.