It is a phenomenal book, a look at multiple perspectives of native culture from a youth alive today. I do not read this book as soothing words of comfort. Late in the book, the broken promises, actual crimes and genocide are related metaphorically through a story written by one of the characters. The story itself is so well constructed, so intimately and carefully layered, that when you get to the end, you know you have just experienced a true work of art. I sat and read through this book in one day. I felt authentic emotions, deep seated reactions to the lives portrayed in words that were real to me. The author writes in brutally blunt, beautiful language and the facts contained are horrifying. The information was new to me, and shocking. The author is a master of imagery and someone who can pack big ideas into short clauses, the two short nonfiction parts are very impactful and they add another dimension to understanding the fictional characters. This book wants us to know that the term Native cannot be easily defined and, in fact, encompasses many kinds of people who share the burden of alienation, isolation and cruel history. As Americans, it defines all of us in many important ways. I cannot express the depth and the light of this book sufficiently. Characters are distanced from their culture. Many of them are biracial, openly wondering who and what they are. Each of them has so much heartfelt emotion with a stream of consciousness. These not the stereotypical Native Americans that we typically see in books and movies. A window is given into a community and culture that was out of sight. It was a special experience for me to turn pages and find myself in so many locations I see and experience on a regular basis. I love the pattern of cataclysmic ending. Four stars are on the quality of the writing and the strength of the original voice. A very impressive novel and I cannot wait to read more. But I am tired of blood soaked climaxes and the populated characters. The author is an immense talent and he makes us suffer, hurt and try for that most desperate question. I saw him do small subtle nuance that told me he really knows what he is doing and is in control of every single shift in words. I could not put this book down, and I did not want it to end and I highly recommend this book to all readers who want to experience something unique and amazing in literature.