This is a beautiful lamentation on the state of being black in America today and every father should read this book. The wisdom and fear of the father of the author is sure to resonate. The author uses the experience of young African Americans and his own experiences growing up to create a poetic and impassioned letter to his son and, indeed to the world, about what it means to be a person of color in the United States at the beginning of the last century. The author captured the attention of the public with this his second memoir. He touched the theme of the perils of the black body in the USA. First as an inner city youth, he is negotiating the way between the failings of the school and the violent demands of the street. In the pages of this book are a hundred conversations that my parents have never had to have with me. The author writes to his son, candidly and honestly, about a truth that black men and women share, a truth hidden from white people by institutions, by willful ignorance, and by tradition. The book is so enlightening and I wish I could express my fears, frustrations, and thoughts on being black in America to my children the way this father expressed his. It made me reflect on an incident that happened while I was a young mother. As a mother, I could not imagine having to live with fear like that for the life of my son. I finished in one day. I truly enjoyed reading this work and have an appreciation for the perspective. As a black immigrant, I do have to say that it is very disheartening for me to observe how African Americans are stuck in the past. Facing this truth is facing our fears as a nation, so books like this must be read and considered honestly. I totally think this is a read for a family of spiritually and and culturally open minded. You must never look away from this book. You must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body. The author takes the world he lives in and opens it up, dissecting it on the table for all of us to see and experience. This book is a letter to his son as a way of reaching out to him after yet another unarmed black man is killed while in custody. It has brought me much closer to the awareness that I can not place myself in another reality or understand what it is to see the world through the eyes of another. It is beautifully written and incite full. It should be read by every thinking person. When I was not tearing up over some new truths I was being introduced to, I was tearing up over his beautiful writing. I would recommend this book especially to anyone who questions the necessity the movement of the black lives matter.