The book set is good to read bu the book is not the one that makes you want to turn pages and keep on reading and searching for what will happen next. I previewed the series before handing it off to my child. I would say this latest book in the series lacks the maturity that others display. Young people are endlessly fascinating, and face seemingly endless challenges as they develop in this complex and intense world. There is not a nice word about anyone, including the family, in the series. This book can be split into two sections. The first portion was kind of funny but I did not care for story line. The second half was better and more cohesive but not as humorous. I hate to critique these books. I really do like them but personally this one falls flat in many areas in contrast to the previous books. There were a lot more words than I had thought. I had thought it was more of a graphic novel, which my kids love, and less word narrative. Instead, I would describe it as word narrative that uses pictures to be less daunting rather than encouraging negative, baseless and superficial rumination. The font of the book is very pleasing to children with more attention issues. The plot is extremely relevant. I was very excited when I got the package because my kids love this series and I wanted them to own the books instead of borrowing them. I loved the idea of gifting them a collectible boxed set to keep them neatly displayed and easy to find. Unfortunately, when we received the books in the mail, we noticed there was some scribbling on the cover. When the book was unwrapped, there was a penis and poop drawn on the character. With further perusal, I discovered almost every page is drawn with this ongoing theme, in pen. You may not get the collectible box for the boxed set and you may not get the same books as you expect. Disappointed. It was not fun to read and this book was merely a chronicled journal of a boy that could not get a date no matter what he tried. The author just really lost touch with what made the other books worth. My son did not enjoy the book because he had a hard time relating to the main character. He did not connect with all the stuff in the book about school. The main character did not impress me because he seemed to be a complainer, he was not nice to his only friend, and just seemed to have an overall defiant and gloomy attitude. I would not have bought if I had known it would be causing a problem.