There are three basic plots lines, involving a widowed young Tamil man, his son and a Canadian female law intern. The three stories intersect and intertwine. At times there are almost too many characters and too much time jumping but it gets easier to keep everyone straight as things progress. The main character and his son arrive in Canada on a rickety cargo ship along with other desperate refugees escaping a civil war that has caused people to flee for their lives. They are sent to prison until his status not as a civilian combatant is proven. Instead of starting a new life there, they are taken to a processing center, where interrogation by various government agencies commences as there is a concern that some of these refugees are terrorists belonging to a militant separatist organization and thus pose a threat to Canadian security. He has high hopes that Canada will let him and his son in with open arms, but he quickly learns that many Canadians see Tamil refugees as terrorists who need to be sent back. The main character seeks nothing more than hope and a new life for himself and his son but finds himself in a system that is not listening. The story moves back and forth in time to the lift of main character in this country, the strife that took his wife life and caused him to flee, and his depression and anger about his uncertain future. The story is an illuminating and emotional exploration of the dangers and challenges faced by refugees and immigrants across the globe. We see daily struggles of main character as the immigration status hangs in limbo, and we suffer with him when his fate unfolds. It was 1949 before all restrictions were ended for Japanese Canadians and they were allowed back to the west coast. It is surprising and disappointing that author goofed on this. The main message is that Canadian reaction to refugees is variable and unpredictable. This book highlights important issues that contemporary individuals and governments face. Balancing humanitarian perspectives and national security often presents a choice that officials must make without having the complete background information essential to making that decision. Those who represent immigrants may waiver between their instincts to help and their desire to pursue more lucrative areas of law. The author writes this historical fictional account with vividness and realness. She alternates in telling the story of different characters. This bringing the Civil War down to individuals helps very much in understanding what happened and what the issues are. This book also makes more personal and encourages me to read more about this event and the current situation today. The writing is in turns visceral, nostalgic and filled with wry humor. The book provides ample opportunity to empathize with individuals from war torn parts of the world. It begs for a more compassionate treatment of refugees. With well formed, nuanced characters and obviously properly researched material, timely and assured. It is not a happy situation and there are no easy answers. This is well worth reading, especially for those in the US to get a different perspective on immigration. I thought the ending of the novel was brilliant, a clear view of the uncertainty of many futures.