This novel creates a compelling portrait of life during wartime but a less convincing back story for a future American war. The war is based on laws forbidding use of gas powered cars due to climate change, leading some states to secede. It strikes me as unrealistic that such a law would lead to war. This book was like watching a slow motion train wreck, terrible things happening in the most boring way possible. On the positive, this is well written and thought out. On the negative, I had difficulty reading for more than a half hour or so. I truly believe we are right now on the brink of another Civil War. I feel that this book did not come even close to developing a story which would make this believable. I enjoyed this book to a point. It is a good story, and it is written well. But, for some reason I got bored with it several times in the last half of the book. I agree with others that the author is a good writer, but spent way too much time developing the main character while leaving a broader more interesting story unattended. I think the author dwelled too long, the story slowed down and it was a bore. The main character was kind of unlikable. I found myself rooting for her at times but a lot of the time I just did not like her. She was a strong female character which was nice. I predicted the ending but I am pretty sure that the author wanted the readers to predict it. It is disappointing that dystopian fiction has become obsessed with cloying character development and not with spending time on how the forces that influence the character were created. The novel takes you through the aftermath from the rebel characters in the southern states. I liked the idea of this novel, but I did not care for any of the characters or points of view. It is a pretty grim story that is thought provoking in some ways but also not particularly enjoyable to read. The plot is flat and contrived. The author seems to have little notion of American history. I struggled to believe the story of a united Middle East becoming a dominant Superpower in world affairs. At times the writing was enjoyable, but the incredulity of the plot left me truly regretting time spent reading this book. A fascinating premise is hampered by some frustrating narrative decisions. This book read like a first draft, as if the publishers saw an opportunity to sell a dystopian American book to an increasingly dystopian America. I walked away feeling a tad disappointed by what could have been. If I could give this less than a one star, I would. Do not waste your money. It is like telling the history of Disney from the point of view of the guy that does the catering for the craft table.