This book is amazing. I love getting lost in a book that transports me to a different time and place, a different life and does it with authenticity. I felt the setting in Alaska was authentic and a true representation. The writing is very picturesque and describes homesteading in a way to make me really understand how hard it was back in old time. The descriptions was all pretty amazing. It is like watching a documentary about the state where we are swept from the water up to the glaciers and see a great panoramic of the wild and pristine state. This story is so compelling there are parts that are painful to read. But keep reading. This is the story of a dysfunctional family torn apart by domestic violence that is born in the aftermath of the time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. He came home to his wife and daughter a fractured man. This is a love story. The love of a wife, Cora, for her tortured husband. A love so strong that it blinds her ability to see what their troubled relationship is doing to their daughter. I can not say I understand why a woman would stay in a relationship where she was physically abused and also was constantly subjecting her child to the dangers of domestic abuse. The author neglected to fully explain why a beautiful woman would stay with someone who backhanded and hurt her her on a regular basis. Passion alone would not do it, as I am of the opinion that passion is a fleeting and fickle state, and it would take much more than that to keep a woman coming back for more. I could not put this book down until the daughter found a clean bed, clean sheets, new clothes, a warm room, a hot bath, money, and some privacy. These did not come until much too late in her story. But, by then, of course I had to stick with it to see how it and if those things made her happy. The story is very descriptive which I like, but maybe several pages or so too much description. The second half of the book was fantastic. A lot happened in this story characters were well defined, the plot was twisting, sad and happy and also horrifying at times. The author has created layered, fleshy characters and an engrossing story, but you really need to be in a good place emotionally to read this one. While many of her books are bittersweet and run the gamut of emotions, this one is pretty bleak cover to cover. The characterization of both people and place are compelling and brutally real, as always, and the author is never afraid to shine a light on tough subjects. However, as much as I felt for the characters, this is the first book of in so long that has not made me cry. If all is stable and calm in your world and you read it from a place of peace and emotional homeostasis, or you need a catalyst for a bawl fest, go for it. It is certainly an engrossing read and very well written. But if you have a lot on your plate, or more than a bit of emotional stress in your life at the moment, steer clear. There was a happy ending which made it worth the read and thinking back on it. It is true this was not a book a jokes and riddles, and I do not recall laughing even once throughout reading this. The enduring emotion I get from this book is not sadness, it is survival through difficulty, imperfect yet enduring love, strength that you do not know you have within you till it is time to show it. The storytelling is so impeccable that you feel the anxiety of the characters and go on the journey with them all the way to the end. Not my genre by a long shot, but I read it in one day and I was captivated. It includes beauty, tragedy, love and redemption. Riveting, horrifying and absolutely wonderful. The story flows in an often unpredictable way and leaves the reader wanting more and I am so glad I read this book and I can not wait to highly recommend this classic books to others.