The book started brutally slowly. Fifty pages in, I was ready to dump it but I kept telling myself that this was a Hugo award winner. I will admit, the world that the author was building was layered, complex, and intriguing and the writing style was certainly different but the book struck me like a play that had gorgeously painted scenery and amateur actors. I can see the analogies to slavery, but that is not what I was looking for in a fantasy book. The plot was not sufficiently interesting to make me want to wade through the child violence, and the writing style was confusing and never came together for me. The storytelling device to identify reader as the main character at one point and telling the story in second person was brilliant, I had not encountered that before. The language was quite terse and not particularly eloquent, yet it took many many many pages to tell the story. Splitting of the chronological sections felt artificial. Some bits of the story felt a bit naive. The author uses a lot of out of use vocabulary, but that does not make it good. Now that was good and a page turner. It is so hard to find good authors anymore. The book starts off with a bizarre narrative speaking directly to the reader, breaking the fourth wall instantly, but still managing to be utterly confusing. I kept trucking along, hoping to find that it gets as good as they say it does. There is two other main characters, and that is good, and these chapters are better, but it makes it all the more jarring and the writing style just is not for me. I am a voracious reader who saw great potential in this book, but I could not get passed the prose that left me wondering what the heck I was reading after the first chapter. I will take the blame and I am not going to spend previous hours on, regardless of the endless praise it got. I did not love it. I have a hard time with authors who make up words for the sake of making them up. It is like they are trying too hard to develop a world. The story gets bogged down with the crazy words and technical speak. It is hard to know who is more responsible for the bad writing here, the writer, who has no style whatsoever, and who seems to often be making stuff up as she goes along, with no planning. I do not read a lot of science fiction, so I do not know what passes for Hugo worthy fiction out there, but if this is it, the genre must be in terrible shape. The author badly needs to tether her strong imagination to some sturdy craft. This series could have been excellent. The story is a good one. However, the gimmicky structure of the series, especially the first volume makes it a confusing and frustrating read. The epileptic jumping around in the time line of the story without explanation of the jump makes for a lot head scratching. Another silly gimmick is the frequent name changes of the primary character. The attempt at making the reader assume the role of the protagonist is also frustrating. It adds nothing to the story or the reading experience of the story. Overall, despite really liking the concepts, I disliked reading this book enough that I am just not interested in what happens next, and I will not be reading the next in the series.