While this book does not give much new material to the plot, it does provide insight into the mental state and the development of Christian Grey, letting the reader see what is happening in his mind. Insight into the thought processes puts a different light on the overall story and I found it provided a fascinating view of his thinking, explaining his behaviors and his insecurities. The perspective of the author gives depth and color to a deeply scarred and flawed character that makes him more easily understood as the emotionally frozen teen within the adult, sexually and physically abused but totally enamored. It was refreshing and moving to see a deeply, emotionally flawed character grow and fall in love. In my opinion, this book did not disappoint. Christian Grey is a complex man. He is a self made billionaire who was born in abject poverty. He is a man who exercised control in all things, but begins to give up those rules and controls when he meets Anastasia Steele. I personally like this book better. I found this book very enjoyable and I sincerely hope that there will be more books in the series. Hopefully a book that starts up where Fifty Shades Freed ended someday. Readers get a glimpse into Christian other relationships. I know there are people who feel that this series romanticizes abuse and rape, but I do not see it like that. This book especially for me shows how meeting Ana affects Christian. He has thrown into a tailspin as he tries to establish a relationship with Ana. The only way he knows how and begins to feel things he has not felt in many years, which frightens him. I was saddened by what seemed to be a literary hit against the book as well as the author. I did read a lot of the reviews, good and the bad ones. I wanted to go into this read knowing as much as possible. Now that may sound silly since if you know what is going to happen but seeing life through Christian eyes really allows you to understand him. You can not fast forward all your trilogy knowledge in this read. Totally loved this. I listened to the audio book of Grey, and the narrator is perfect for Christian Grey. He has a wonderful tone to his voice, and he really drew you into the story. I definitely recommend listening if you have the opportunity. I love the whole Fifty Shades series, so I knew I would most likely love this. I am so excited for the next book. The only thing I did not like is stupid Robinson. Definitely need the next one now. I find myself wanting to grab Mrs James, shake her and ask why did you let them do this to your amazing story. Now I can not even read this without picturing the actors. I actually feel sick. God I hope it is better. So my advice, read the books but never watch the movie. I took forever to finally read this book because I knew a part of me would be sad to finish it. This is the book that put life back into my reading world. I do not have the words to Christian. He is still one of my favorite book boyfriends. I just love him. I have spent over a week reading this book. I have seen the many negative reviews and to each their own. For me, Christian is just someone who gets into my head. I personally really enjoyed being in his head. I was not disappointed. The story answered so many questions about my beloved Christian Grey. I loved every minute of it. I went to looked up the next movie and comes out Valentine day. I am not really even ashamed of myself. My love for Christian Grey is up there with my passion for chocolate, not to be measured or judged, just savored. Christian Grey makes me lustful and glad to be alive. I greatly appreciate this book. It was an easy, fast, fun read. It was not overly repetitive, full of grammatical errors or one that made you want to throw a thesaurus at the writer. I enjoyed it. I took it for what it was. Which leads me to all of the criticism about Grey. You are upset because your ideal book boyfriend is damaged. And apparently more so than you thought. Get over it. It is fiction. And if you really think about it, the author has outdone herself with this books as to receive such visceral responses to true character. I am looking forward to the next book.