This book reads like a fairy tale for grown ups. Its simplicity hides real pearls of wisdom about life, death, love and family. I loved all the ghosts, even the ghouls, and the ending actually made me tear up which hardly ever happens. Magical, tender, sad and hopeful all at once. I notice the reviews here are mostly by adults. I agree with the five star reviews but I would love to see some reviews from children in the target audience for this book. In this book, the author cements his greatness in fiction once and for all. A child who escaped the mysterious murder of his birth family is taken in by none other than the ghosts at the local graveyard. The graveyard inhabitants reflect their time in history. Under the watchful eye of the new, ghostly parents and an otherworldly guardian named Silas, tiny Bod, as he comes to be known, makes the land within the graveyard his own. The complicated answers to so many questions weaves together into a beautiful, terrifying blanket, and in so doing, he shows his readers that it is only the most porous of curtains that separates life and death, that magic still exists. One of my favorite parts is how the advice the ghosts give is dated. It is that attention to goofy detail that makes it such a marvelous read. I thoroughly enjoyed this, but it is pretty sophisticated and I wonder if it would be lost on most kids. The protagonist Bod, grows up among the long dead people and other supernatural beings. He is protected from the world, but soon his past and his future beckon him into the world of the living. As the story proceeded I found it full of heart warming moments, mystery, and suspense. Story line is being taken care of by the spirits, souls, and long past residents of a cemetery. After many adventures in and out of the cemetery, Bod, is ready to go out and live life in the world. His interactions with beings from both worlds are witty, humorous, moving, and at times nerve wracking or dangerous. The author remains one of my favorite tellers of Other Worldly tales. I bought the audible version. It is read by the author and it turns out Neil Gaiman could have had a second career as a voice actor. I loved his unique characterizations and accents, and I enjoyed hearing it read in the author own voice. The full cast production was so much more fun than one narrator and brought the story to life. The story is about a young boy Bod who, for his own protection, is whisked away as an infant when his parents and older sister are murdered. The story kept me entertained and wanting more and I was sorry when it ended. In short, I loved it and will probably buy the print version to go with the audio. The book is worth a read, it is beautifully written. I was extremely sad to finish this spectacular book. I read this in my sixth grade class and this is now my model for my creative writing. The vivid words make me feel like I am right there with Bod. Because of the complex and well described characters, you truly can understand the emotions they feel. A well written plot sucks you into the story where it is practically impossible to guess what could happen next. In my opinion, one of author best and most entertaining works. I wish I could have read it to my niece. I do have to admit that I kept the book open and ready to be read for two days. I was drawn in and enjoyed the ride. Highly recommended.