Overall the book was moderately enjoyable but not what I was expecting. There are a few things similar but the book is more a narrative first person account of the experiences of the main character. I was disappointed. The character aspects of the book were a bit too simple. The emotions of Johnie are merely described, like a machine with a human name. The horror of the bugs is barely illustrated and they are left as mere shapeless antagonists. The action described was limited. Much of the book is concerned with how to pick men and women out of a group to create an elite force. Having read some prior works and a being fan of the movie, I came in with high expectations. Of course, I was not expecting the movie version, but I was expecting more action sequences and battles. But the focus is on the military lifestyle and its structure rather than a man versus bug adventure story. The reason why this book gets three stars though is that I felt like I was getting kicked in the face with a very bizarre and not particularly agreeable political statement. What the author argues for is bizarre and relatively stone age compared to the futuristic setting. I have picked up another volume to see if its a trend solely with this book or beyond. What I did find interesting was how rich of a read it was. It is really the musings about how the military of the future might look like and provided a character and events to unpack it. It is for this that the author was so great as a writer. He thought things through to the multiple degree. So it is a worthy read. I also get a glorified manual on military life and that a soldier does not know anything important about the war he is fighting in. I am not saying it is a bad book. It is very well written and you do get a sense on what military life is like, for good or bad. Perhaps I am in the wrong demographic to be reading this book. I just did not like it as well as I thought I would. Some parts were really thought provoking like the concept of authority and responsibility in the sovereign power to rule. Also interesting is the juxtaposition of communists with the bugs. I respected the fact that protagonist slammed both the Americans and the Communists. But this science fiction is too obviously a vehicle to make a statement and comes off as transparent. The book actually has very little to do with fighting the bugs and more to do with military progression. By no means am I saying you should not read this book or that this is a bad book. I am just saying do not expect too much if you are looking for fast paced action and epic battles. Just know that if you are looking for an action packed story that this may not be the best book for you. That is not to say that this book is bad and is in fact a nice little read that I would recommend to all science fiction fans. And, if one is interested in how to form an elite unit, the book is for you.