This book is about the six civil rights leaders who initiated the 1963 March on Washington. Using the graphic novel form, Congressman Lewis, Andrew and Nate have put the civil rights struggle in words and drawings favored by many young people born many years after the events depicted took place, making that struggle real to them. Lewis has had a number of close calls throughout the movement, and he has lost a number of friends and colleagues to the violence. And although he does have moments in which he breaks down emotionally, his faith in a nonviolent movement remains strong and propels him through some tough times. I bought these for my grandchildren to learn the history of the civil rights. Quick history about what happened back in the day delivered in a fun way for readers to enjoy. It was important to me that they understand all that happened especially more than they can get in school. They loved the books and plan to read again. They discuss as a little book group and try to impact change by having conversations. We will have these to pass along to every generation. Important for younger children to understand the struggles and what we as whites have done. It is extremely eye opening. The perspective of author teaches us so much about the hard work that went into the civil rights movement. The format, the writing and the art, offers great insight to young people with widely varying reading skills and social backgrounds. Probably more importantly, it provides an historic perspective people might not respond to at all if it were presented in another format or medium. This would be equally useful for people younger than I am who cannot even dimly remember that era. I hope that teachers utilize this series as a tool to show their students this important era of American history. I have read history books of America. But nothing as powerful as this one. The history of protagonist is a powerful message to all people of all nations that nonviolence can change the state, the country, the world. Just hope and keep faith. It will not be over night, but it will. I am proud to be a white American. I appreciated a first hand account in a format that illustrates the treatments in a graphical manner which tugs at your heart strings. Well done gentlemen, well done.