This type of book is new to me, with all the drawings in it. When I bought it as I did not realize it would be a graphic novel. I picked this up because I saw near universal five star reviews for this book on pretty much every site ever. I felt like I missed it when I was reading. I really enjoyed two of the stories, the one about birthday cake and the goose, but the rest of the book I found pretty average. I was looking for a funny book, because I was feeling low and needed to laugh. I bought the book because it said it was incredibly funny, and people were in bits over it. However, I realized quickly that this book, as childlike as the drawings were, and as funny as the narrative was meant to be, was a story about a woman who has had deep and serious struggles in life. The author left out the fish story which disappointed me but the God of Cake kind of made up for it. This book is much more introspective for Allie as she examines her flaws and her battle with depression. For that purpose the book was very interesting to me. Humor is a subjective thing and I liked this book and I felt it was well done and also illuminating in many spots as to depression. I started reading it and found my self laughing out loud. As I read more, the subject matter became more serious, still always approached with humor. I thought it was very insightful and eye opening as far as explaining depression. If you can push yourself through it you will see that Allie is now focused on taking herself by storm. If you just want to support the author out of a deep seated loyalty, go ahead and buy it, but if you are looking for your next good read that will have you captivated for at least a few days. I thought the format was cool though with the illustrations. The topic and writing are clever and honest. I wanted to have a book to recommend to friends as a you have got to read this book, it is a real hoot. It brought an occasional smirk but nothing that seemed overtly funny. The author has a way with words which I only wish I had. And I adore the pictures, although they are so simple, yet they are so perfectly hilarious for each situation. Maybe, the graph is extremely distracting to have to interrupt the flow of reading the story, but you will laugh out loud.