I was looking for a few low cost books with good reviews. I picked up this book after reading a lot of positive reviews. The plot follows six pilgrims and their backstories in a far future that has seen the destruction of earth and the emergence of faster than light travel and ascendant artificial intelligence technologies. This book can be described as Canterbury Tales set in space with monsters. Some of the tales are more interesting than others. I enjoyed the mystery and world building elements of this book, but felt like it dragged in parts, spending a lot of time describing irrelevant details. About half way through I realized I was not going to be interested enough to read the second book. Then it turns out this is a two part story, the situation the travelers are going to address is not addressed until the next book. I did not even get a sense of climax at the end of story, or even the book itself. With the overarching plot that is only superficially related to the short stories, this book is more like a collection of short stories, loosely connected together by an overarching journey, than a true science fiction novel. And all of the stories could have used editing for length. It seems like the author wrote a bunch of short stories at one point in his life and then later decided to squish them together into a novel, modifying them slightly so that they somewhat touched upon the overarching plot. Six main characters who decide to explain their connection to the shrike and why they offer themselves. However none of their stories matter because right before the ending the book ends. Not that that is a bad thing it was just done wrong. Most of the characters were interesting. The Hyperion universe is weird, wonderful, and uncomfortable all at once. You will catch glimpses of other science fiction works folded neatly into embrace. With all these stories and grand plot lines weaving, you may hope that by the end of this long book you would find the purpose to this madness. After numerous entries with no real progress or events, I have a feeling it gets good and just took extremely too long for me. Overall, the writer does a good job of adding in mystery to each story making you want to listen to just one more chapter. I found myself sitting in parking lots or my driveway wanting to get to the end of a chapter just to find out what happens. Good writing, intriguing premise, worth the read.