This book is one of the most influential science fiction novels written in recent decades, ushering in the cyberpunk genre. While its historic importance and influence should never be dismissed, the book holds up very well with a compelling plot, interesting or vivid characters and some memorable phrases. I loved the ideas that littered the book and gave it a strong futuristic feel. This book may seem dated, as some note. I read this book in college and was pleased to enjoy it more this time around. The author will throw neologisms at you immediately, with usually no explanation what they mean. This can be deterring for some. But this single book, changed the look and tone of science fiction forever. Many of the words the author created changed our lexicon and he helped create a way to speak and consider the rapidly evolving digital, internet world then that we can not live without today. Reading this book some years later still left me with feelings of nailed it, and I can see that. I do not know how the author was able to imagine a world of jacking into the net and getting past the ice of connected systems. This sounds like present day. The author is one of the finest American novelists of all time. This book is his finest work. It is taut, deep, and vast. Basically all science fiction after this owes its existence to it. Its quality and importance cannot be overstated. My copy version books are upside down whenever they are on the shelf. Odd complaint, but I can not imagine why these books were designed this way. I advise you not to give up on this book, well worth the read. However, I found I was having trouble keeping up. Transitions in the chapters were not clear and there were times I had no idea what was going on but kept on reading knowing it would get clear again. Constantly remembering the birth date of the text, in utter disbelief that the idea could have existed. That is the only really part why I gave it four stars. Although the prose of author needs carefully attention at times to unravel, yet I had a blast reading it.