This book is different than the other science fiction oriented books. The author is a tough minded woman. As always the prose is impeccable. The narrative portion of the story is captivating. The multiple story lines are well written and intertwined. The reader is able to watch the lives of Laura and Iris unfold and watch them grow up and start to understand the world around them. Laura is the narrator, and she opens the book by recounting on page one the circumstances of her sister death. The sections alternate between Iris written as an old woman, which is about both her present life and her memories, dated newspaper articles about her and other people in her life. From there the book moves from the present, back to the past, and to a novel within the novel that slowly reveals its origins as the story progresses. The Blind Assassin or the story within a story is odd. It is like reading a detective novel with clues coming from each of the writings that help you sort out what happened. However, Iris did not grow as character. Even at the end, the reader does not see her growing. She is the same, complacent character. If I thought summarizing the book up was hard, I can say that telling you why I loved this book is equally difficult. It is no secret that the author has a way with words and is able to weave a complex story with complete ease, but she is also able to foster empathy for misunderstood characters. The author manages to recreate a world where the suppression of women is commonplace, but not evil, while at the same time punctuating the story with little rebellions by strong women. Saying I loved this book is not enough, but any analysis I could offer would be pale. Beyond the alternating stories, which dovetail very well, the words are beautifully selected, and never tedious. My heart is throbbing. My mind stretches into the lives and the future of the story that continues in the nowhere space of everywhere where great novels continue to unfold. I feel like my perceptions and appreciations of people I know will be deeper, more clear and more vivid. This is a long book, and it took me a long time to get into it. Some of the literary devices are not fully revealed, but stick with it. You will be rewarded with fabulous writing and a thought provoking finish. This book has an incredible story to tell, of family, fortune and bone deep betrayal, you will not be able to read this in stages, this story cannot wait, I read it through, then, immediately, read it again, it is that good.