I read this book every year. There are so many layers. I have to confess routinely skipping most of the long poems, although the smaller pieces are good. It is an enchanting mix of love, mystery and history, blended with poetry and short stories. This is a highly literary book. If you enjoy settling in with a book and immersing yourself in wonderfully formed characters and are willing to take a side trip with the poetry, then this is the novel for you. The story is exciting and like a detective story proceeding into the labyrinth of human heart. It combines the elegance of the Romantic era poets with the pragmatism of the modern investigators. The narrative goes back and forth between current time and history. What I really loved about this novel was its depth and scholarly presentation through letters, journal entries, historical comments, and the actual poetry of the characters. It is unlike many of the current novels that have a bare bones plot and character description. The language of this book is lyrical and solid, complex and beautifully written. La Motte and Ash are two marvelous characters, so peculiar and yet so universal in their discovery of love and reciprocal understanding. The main characters do indeed ultimately get romantically linked, but it is the story of the passion of pursuit of knowledge. This book is worth the effort. The author seamlessly weaves two relationships set years apart into a delightful, inventive, breathtakingly written whole. I am just absolutely floored by the amount of research and writing that went into making this book. To make up poems, and articles, and letters, and excerpts of biographies that all fit together to make a believable tale like this, is no small feat. The characters, especially the poets in the earlier story, seem so real, and so much of their world is meticulously created, down to some of the poets actual poems, that I was almost convinced they really existed. The author is very much precise in reconstructing poetry and prose. This is a long and satisfying read for anyone who enjoys literary history and mystery. Worth the time. The author must have an amazing retentive mind, we are lucky she likes to share. Stunning prose, and first class storytelling.