If you have been looking for science fiction where the alien race is really alien, this book is a must read. It is pretty well written and presents a lot of interesting dilemmas and issues from unique perspectives. The author does a great job of making the reader think while holding a very interesting story. Being able to look at a seemingly one sided issue as family abuse and present the whole story is a unique talent that speaks to the ability as a writer. One of the best parts of this book is that the nature of the aliens is not just an interesting accessory to the story, it is vital to the plot. The book starts off with a somewhat slow prelude to the rising action, but by the end of the first chapter, this book will have you hooked. The book works perfectly as a sequel and the main character makes some remarkable observations about society. By placing the action on an alien planet, an author can say whatever he wants about our world, without fear of being sued, or attacked by the media. The complex culture, the aliens themselves, and the devastating virus that impacted the whole ecosystem, displays the brilliant imagination. The characters are very deeply described, and falling in love with them is no hard task at all. The book has a wide variety of characters that it is easy to find one that you can relate to. The author is superb at exploring character, motive, affect. He weaves a whole world that is at once believable and fantastic. The author continues to deepen, and his computer lover Jane is remarkable, but so are the people he meets, and comes to love. I did not think it was possible to fall more in love with the character Ender. I think now I just find him more believable as his interesting approach to problem solving and cerebral outlook. The author writes about a new galactic community so beautifully so that you really care about each character he involves you with and for the indigenous species that exist on the planet. By far, it is one of my favorite books, and I think I would recommend this even if your are not that into science fiction. This one will make for an excellent read anyway. My fascination is with the little boy lost, the merciless military that created him and uses him for its purpose, his loving sister and hateful brother, in short, all the well crafted characters that inhabited these books, make it a formidable saga and a reading experience hard to forget. The only criticism I have is that the author picked the humans to be represented by Portuguese. I think the author could have achieved exactly the same thing by making it a Spanish colony with Spanish words and names. This would have made it significantly easy for readers to understand and relate to his book. I have read every book in the series so many times that my paperback books are worn out and I have purchased replacement books a few times. It will be hard to find a place to put this one down, and even harder not to jump right into the next in the series as you finish. Enjoy a new species, planet, and complete new set of characters in this must have for any science fiction fan. What an awesome read.