A very skillful writer and devoted researcher messed up her book by writing an historic novel in the present tense. It is extremely annoying to the reader and overwhelms all other reactions to what is actually a beautifully detailed picture of the Middle Tudor period. It is always interesting to read of the intoxication, over the top era of the reign of Henry eight, but I found this book disappointing. Even though I knew the history of the events, I could not follow the disjointed manner in which this book was presented and almost gave up half way. I wanted to like this book and I just can not. The story was extremely slow moving. I resolve myself to getting through it and simply cannot read more than a few pages before finding some put off chore around the house I would rather tend to. This book is from an entirely new vantage point and retells the well worn tale bringing it into a new light. Anne and Henry are secondary figures to the outsider Thomas Cromwell. There is no insight, just the mental gymnastics of making up extensive dialog and some characters to flesh out the lives of Cromwell. The frequent use of vague pronouns is just irritating. It was not always easy to tell if the person speaking was Thomas Cromwell. Besides being irritating, it breaks the reader immersion in the story. The use of very modern language also tends to break immersion. I get the value of not trying to use outdated language, every time some character said something ludicrously modern, it was jarring. The writing style is just flat out strange. I really do not know if I am the only one on earth that is having a confusing time reading this book. There are many characters to keep straight and others that seem random and not mentioned again. I could just never get into the book or connect with the characters. For every paragraph I read, I swear I have got to go back in order to figure out who is who. A reader should not have to do that. In all I found the book unclear. Obviously, this is the distinct style of writing by this author, but it is distracting. This book was just okay, not great, have read better regarding this subject matter, and frankly after all of the great reviews and the award that the book received, I just did not enjoy the story very much and expected a better read. I would have loved to read the sequel but I do not want to put myself through this again so will be looking for something new. I know most of the reviews were positive, but I just did not get it. I feel that I am qualified to read a book like this. But, I could hardly follow it. I had planned on reading the trilogy but changed my mind on that. I decided there are many good books dealing with Henry eighth and I could stop torturing myself trying to follow the plot.