There is no doubt this is a classic, a great science fiction story. Most of it in fact, is absolutely brilliant. This is an incredibly complex, detailed and marvelously researched novel about the initial colonization of the planet Mars. I bought this series when they were originally published. The characterizations and hard science makes this book stand out. The book caught and held my attention. I know just enough science to be able to appreciate how carefully the story is based on science, yet is not made prosaic or too explanatory by that scientific basis. The science is astounding, but the dramatic and mythic elements carry the story, and, indeed, the whole trilogy. Rarely does science fiction dare to go as deep into the realm of human culture and society as the author does. And this is what makes his writing so special and relevant. This does not cause a lack of thoughtful hard science either, as there are beautiful and detailed descriptions. Tagging along with the details on the planet itself, there are great descriptions of the science behind how this transforming happens, and the technologies that exist in the future solar system. I could not put the books down, and quickly became invested in the story and characters. I do not know how well the author planned the sequels. The sequel science was okay but it became more and more speculative. The author then used one plot device that ruined the rest of the series. Out of nowhere we suddenly had near immoral life spans. This allowed the same characters to live through the changes. I must admit that I found the central love triangle a tiresome repetition of soap opera like dialogue, but the level of realism combined with the scope of the work is truly admirable. The author clearly did the necessary homework to displace the reader from our natural environment and deposit us deep into the vast desert like terrain of Mars. The multicultural facets explored along the way, and their inclusion into the martian mindset, make this a work of artistry. With the extent of geographical description, I wish I had a map of Mars to track allot of this. It follows colonists from different parts of Earth colonizing Mars and the political ramifications that ensues between groups concerned about what their actions will do to the planet and others that look at it as advancement, regardless of the outcome. The books keep the reader engaged. I found the writing style to be somewhat akin to another book. Both are grounded in science, but incredibly imaginative at the same time. However, the writing is a little bit lazy. Many areas of the story were long and drawn out, making rather normal story points really boring. The ending was so blunt. It is more like the author just got tired of writing and wanted to move into the next book. But, I still highly recommend this book. A very sophisticated read and one that makes you think.