To really work all fiction requires a certain willing suspension of disbelief. This is most obvious in science fiction, fantasy and horror where drives, vampires make regular appearances. The author must weave these elements of the story in with other more believable elements in such a way that the reader buys in and accepts the whole contrived reality. That did not happen in the city. At the border of two countries, two cities in two different dimensions occupy the same place. A cop in one city must investigate the murder of a girl committed in the other. I get the hard boiled inspector and the parallel cities premise, the concept of unseeing, the notion of some in between zone and all that. But the book was just too boring, overly complicated, and the constant banging on the bomb was pointless and seemed to compensate for a lack of quality writing. I could not buy into what seemed to me to be the unrealistic setting and the way the characters reacted to it. It seemed contrived and silly. The idea of unseeing was no more believable than if the population had been divided into those who would hop about on their left foot while others would hop on their right foot and they would ignore each other and wave with opposite arms. Can not imagine how this book won a Hugo. The premise to this novel is great, and it is a good crime novel wrapped up in a quasi science fiction package. The ingredients are perfectly crafted and there is no insult to world building and style, because these elements are truly excellent. But these ingredients just do not work together well, especially considering the amateur plotting. The author has to tie things off with a shady agency and a bevy of newly introduced characters in the last quarter of the book because it is just become too complex and crazy for one person to deal with. It becomes apparent at that point that all the events that went before did not exist to advance the plot but rather to fill out the setting. The plot simply does not come together until the end of the book, and by then it is difficult to continue caring. By half way through this book, it was intensely annoying. So much so that, if there is a clever twist or denouement at the end, I will never read it. If you asked me to describe the main character I could not do it. Had a hard time keeping track of the characters, and finally realized that I just did not care about any of them. I guess I was expecting a lot more from this book. It was not bad but as not exciting until almost the end. I can see how a lot of people would give up or be bored by this book though. Perhaps if the author had supplied a revised dictionary to accompany the book I could have made sense of what he was saying, but as it is the words made no sense at all.