This book is a classic and the reason will become apparent as you progress through the plot. Not only is it a science fiction novel, the basic precept of the novel, has peaked the imagination of theoretical scientists all over the world. The plot is filled with imaginative landscapes, cities, lost alien races, discoveries about the source of humanity, and sex with almost every single alien female we meet in this book. The characters are well developed and complex. The main characters, two aliens and two humans are played against each other which makes for a fast paced and interesting read. It is by far one of the best scientific fiction books ever, so it was written prior to the old times. It has by far one of the most originals ideas about a foreign world and grandiosity of engineering accomplishments. Some parts seem to be over the place, however the general idea and the narrative is captivating and fascinating. The entire time I was reading this book I kept thinking to myself what an intriguing concept. It is just interesting and so very different from most science fiction books I have read before. The author really handles alien concepts in an alien way. At times you will relate or understand but more often you just go. I really enjoyed it but it took me a little while to truly get engrossed in it. My biggest complaint is that there is no information on the order of the series. Both series are interconnected and a continuous story. The rapport between the characters was entertaining, and the concepts were extremely imaginative and mind blowing, but there is something that just feels hollow and synthetic about the story. It seemed to be somewhat too self aware and lacked an emotional core. This book is dated somewhat, but it does not bother me. I am not judging on literally styles or the changes in social norms. If you are put off by the way males and females used to be portrayed in conversation or relationships, you may not love this book. It is a light, easy read. Overall, Outstanding book and even better than the original in my opinion. The plot makes sense and the twist in the end is interesting. The author is not the best writer out there, but his ideas are outstanding. Some of the science of the book has not held up well over the decades. Well worth a read. The scope and concepts involved is enough to recommend it to others.