This book is a collection of interesting ideas played out by sketchbook characters swimming in story soup that never really tightens up into a coherent plot. The author frequently seems like he is completely uninterested in telling a good or even readable story, and is more concerned with sounding clever or urbane. There are not any characters worth caring about, there is a world that is too complex to bother paying attention to, and a climax that is intense but seems to come out of a separate book. The sections with the drummers were awful, back to using the bodies of women for the pleasure of men, except that they catch on fir. I barely managed to finish this book. It is interesting to see the take on a future with nanotechnology, and the plot appears to have promise at the beginning. But, it becomes too convoluted and forced. What started off as an interesting premise ends in the poor execution of a story line that starts to push the limits of my ability to suspend disbelief and becomes quite boring as the author tries to be didactic. The book is divided into two parts, each approximately one half of the whole. The book bounces around like crazy and most of the time I was left wondering who the main character was, what the plot was and why I should care. I powered through the book and it was not an easy task. If not for the nice depictions of future tech, I would have only given it one star. It requires concentration on the story line which does not lend itself to extended time between reading and lots of small reading sessions. I am still putting the story together in my mind so in that way it is thought provoking. There are aspects of the story I wish were clearer. A large amount of space is spent in a seeming effort to educate the reader on the basic concepts of programming and that different systems can be logically equivalent. The last quarter of the novel was about as enjoyable as the final five miles of a marathon, painful to the point of collapse, with every nerve in your body screaming to just give it up. Why do some authors feel they have to put in extra made up words, phrases, and so on, that they then do not define. You have to figure out the meaning from context. If you like hard to read, slow going books, this is for you. Otherwise, avoid it like the plague. The whole idea of the book is intriguing, but the editor should be shot for making the reader slog through pages. The plot ends up feels very jumbled and contrived, and the ending is a disappointment. Overall, I was hugely disappointed. I kept reading, hoping it would get better. I finally decided it was not worth my time, and stopped pages in. For me this book just does not flow like his other books. It is like work and the end results are not worth the effort. There are probably several pretty good stories embedded but final product is with less story line.