Overall, it is not an easy read, but conversely it is virtually pointless to try to understand regional conflicts without a close read. Perhaps the strongest message is that no outsider can appreciate the complexities of ancient and modern tribal, ethnic, cultural, and religious rivalries, beyond a few with high security clearances and impeccable integrity. This is a journalistic history, which means there is no overarching theme, no unifying element, just a series of characters and anecdotes, all strung together. The reading experience provides enough fuel to get you to the end. There are few surprises, nothing a person moderately interested in this subject would not already know. The liberal internationalists believe that within all human beings on this good earth there is a liberal Canadian encased within, and it merely requires patience and chipping away at the rough exterior to reveal this person. Major elements of the schizophrenic US Pakistan story are omitted or treated superficially. The argument lacks the perspective that would have benefited from a more balanced and comprehensive set of sources. Indeed, the narrative seems disjoint, sometimes reading like a fleshed out series of interview note cards, a plotless timeline rather than a coherent story. In trying to convict the Pakistan military, the author offers a collection of circumstantial evidence but fails to flesh out the motive. For example, he fails to piece together a credible picture of Pakistani national security strategy as context for its behavior. I also find the illustrations woefully lacking. Photos of erratic quality are included for only some key players. And the book desperately wants readable maps of key regions and countries. This book is excellent and I am not sure how this book got written and I am sure parts of it was classified, everyone likes the story behind the scenes. This is that book about the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan and it will give you the inside story about what happened between the main characters. The book is told primarily from the opinion of the Department of State and the CIA and not the military. At the end of the book you get some snippets about the military part of the conflict. 