When I first saw the title of this book, I read it as soothing words of comfort, but I had it totally wrong. Taking the famous Gertrude Stein quote that there is no there there, the author explains that this seeming indictment of Oakland, California as a featureless hole in the landscape is not what Stein meant. Further reading of the quote proves she found her hometown unrecognizable as the place of her memory. Late in the book, the broken promises, actual crimes and genocide are related metaphorically through a story written by one of the characters. The purpose of this author is clear and he wants us to know that the term native cannot be easily defined and, in fact, encompasses many kinds of people who share the burden of alienation, isolation and cruel history. I have never read anything quite like this book, but it also defines all of us, as Americans, in many important ways. Orange brings it home in a way possible only for someone who has been there as I never have. This book was what I needed, a look at multiple perspectives of native culture from a youth alive today. Not an easy move to pull, the author dance with time and he makes words dance. The author knows Oakland like a catholic knows the Our Father, and he puts it into his characters well. This is without doubt the best novel I have read in years and there is so much heartfelt emotion in each character. I could not put this book down, and I did not want it to end and I highly recommend this book to all readers who want to experience something unique and amazing in literature. This novel follows a pattern that I continue to deplore in well written novels with the cataclysmic ending. A recent example was My Absolute Darling. Even though we know from page one where things are going, I cannot say I was happy to arrive. There were also too many characters and a list would have helped. It is a very impressive first novel and I can not wait to read more by Tommy Orange. Cities, the places to which they were displaced, are the only homes they have ever known. These are not the stereotypical Native Americans that we typically see in books and movies. 