The author wrote a beautiful book, as a letter to his black son and it made me reflect on an incident that happened while I was a young mother. About forty years ago, I was teaching guitar in my home to a young black boy, who was about the same age as my son. One day, his mother was late picking up her son, so my son suggested that they would like to play together in our back yard. I thought that was a great idea, however, when the mother arrived, and found out that her son was not in the house, I will never forget the fear she expressed as she cried out oh no, he will be killed. I purchased this book almost several months ago, but only got around to reading it today. I finished this book in one day and for context, this is the second book I read this week. The author is a great writer and I truly enjoyed reading his work and have an appreciation for his perspective. As a black immigrant, I do have to say that it is very disheartening for me to observe how African Americans are stuck in the past. I always wonder why the glass is always half empty, their lack of optimism, their hatred for all things white is so prevalent with black Americans. To me, the American dream is open to all who want it, you just have to carve out your niche, make sacrifices, and develop your emotional intelligence. The latter is key, to close, I will do something I am not supposed to do. This was one of the most eye opening, touching, raw books I have read in a long time. The author takes the world he lives in and opens it up, dissecting it on the table for all of us to see and experience. This book is a letter to his son as a way of reaching out to him after yet another unarmed black man is killed while in custody. When I was not tearing up over some new truths I was being introduced to, I was tearing up over his beautiful writing. The destroyers are merely men enforcing the whims of our country, correctly interpreting its heritage and legacy. It is hard to face this, but all our phrasing including the race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this and you must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body. 