I was very excited when I got the package because my kids love this series and I wanted them to own the books instead of borrowing them. I loved the idea of gifting them a collectible boxed set to keep them neatly displayed and easy to find. Unfortunately I received ten books inside with an opened shrink wrap and no collectible box. I also noticed that the last book was different from what is pictured and it came with old school instead of do it yourself book. So keep these things in mind and You may not get the collectible box for the boxed set and you may not get the same books as you expect, disappointed. I bought quite a few of these, because my grandson was enjoying some he had brought home from school. His mom has to limit the amount of time he spends reading them, as they change his behavior from good to not so good and I would not have bought them if I had known they would be causing a problem. I will start off with what I did appreciate about the book and there were a lot more words than I had thought. The font of the book is very pleasing to children with more attention issues and the plot is extremely relevant. There is more grown in the side characters than in the main character, then at the end of the book when he should be taking some responsibility he does not. And the author makes one nice gesture, is not all that gracious about even making that gesture, and then blames his friend for being gone so long when he was a jerk to him. This book can be split into two sections and the first fifty pages cover the early early childhood and then the rest of the book is about school, girls, and a dance. Heffley has been increasingly more interested in girls as the series progresses, but he often quits his pursuit early. I hate to critique these books and I really do like them but personally this one falls flat in many areas in contrast to the previous books. I do not get what positive messages for kids can be gleaned from this series. There is not a nice word about anyone, including his family, in the series, and I have read three of the books now, to see if it changes. 