Okay, one negative criticism, the book refers to the Japanese Canadian internment in WWII ending in 1945. In fact it was 1949 before all restrictions were ended for Japanese Canadians and they were allowed back to the west coast and it is surprising and disappointing that the author goofed on this. In general though I enjoyed this book and found it deals with an important subject, yet the main message I took is that Canadian reaction to refugees is variable and unpredictable. The adjudicators who make life and death decisions are often political appointees and who do not have appropriate training. It is all too easy for us to denigrate the abysmal government south of the border, but the fact is, all countries have done wrong things. This book highlights important issues that contemporary individuals and governments face. Balancing humanitarian perspectives and national security often presents a choice that officials must make without having the complete background information essential to making that decision. Those who represent immigrants may waiver between their instincts to help and their desire to pursue more lucrative areas of law. Only Grace appears not to have altered her opinions and outlook with respect to those seeking asylum, however, her teenage daughters not only begin to understand the past of their grandmother and they seek to learn more. It is the story of Mahindan that tugs at the heart and his wife Chithra died in childbirth. Mahindan and his son are sent to prison until his status as a civilian non combatant is proven and he has high hopes that Canada will let him and his son in with open arms, but he quickly learns otherwise. We see his daily struggles as his immigration status hangs in limbo, and we suffer with him when his fate unfolds. Mahindan and his son arrive in Canada on a rickety cargo ship along with other desperate refugees from Sri Lanka escaping a civil war that has caused people to flee for their lives. The process of being allowed to immigrate into Canada is arduous, as the Canadians are determined to avoid allowing terrorists and violent rebels to stay. Mahindan is locked into a refugee prison, though his son is allowed to live with a foster family. The story moves back and forth in time to the life of Mahindan in this country. The strife that took the life of his wife and caused him to flee, and his depression and anger about his uncertain future. The papers of Mahindan have been lost, so he can not prove that he was not on the wrong side of the conflict. The lawyer of Mahindan, the judge and others in the legal system provide the counterpoint to the refugee crisis. The story is an illuminating and emotional exploration of the dangers and challenges faced by refugees and immigrants across the globe. This book bring the Civil War in Sri Lanka down to individuals and helps very much in understanding what happened and what the issues are. This book also makes more more personal and encourages me to read more about this event and the current situation today. 