I enjoyed this book to a point and it is a good story, and it is written well, but for some reason I got bored with it several times in the last half of the book and I think it is because during each phase of the life of Sarat. The author dwelled too long and the story slowed down and it was a bore. I guess in sum the book was too long for the story, regardless, it is pretty good and It is not a disaster. Because of what is going on politically in our country right now I truly believe we are right now on the brink of another Civil War. I also found myself quite bored throughout the book and was not able to read another word once I got to chapter fourteen. Do not waste your time and money on this book unless you have read everything else out there that covers the coming of the next civil war in the USA. The direction this country is now headed leads me to believe that the next book written on the subject may be nonfiction. An interesting premise where in the near future, climate change has wreaked havoc on the world. The political friction surrounding this has resulted in the second American civil war. The novel takes you through the aftermath from the point of view of rebel characters from the southern states. American War had the opportunity to be a great book, however, the plot fell flatter than the fifteenth century world. Given the fractured nature of modern America there was ample opportunity to tell a story about a future civil war based on current fissures in our society. Additionally, I struggled to believe the story of a united Middle East becoming a dominant Superpower in world affairs. I really wanted to like this book, but I could not and it was like watching a slow motion train wreck, terrible things happening in the most boring way possible. Honestly, I had to force myself to finish it and when I first hear about this book, I was excited to read it. This novel creates a compelling portrait of life during wartime but a less convincing back story for a future American war. Also, it is a dystopia based on very little, just climate change and our continuing political divide, so if you are looking for a dystopia that feels possible and complete, look elsewhere. A fascinating premise is hampered by some frustrating narrative decisions and the author seems to employ an extra omniscient god eye view which seems implausible. 