So depressing that Per the usual, Kristin Hannah has created layered, fleshy characters and an engrossing story, but you really need to be in a good place emotionally to read this one. While many of her books are bittersweet and run the gamut of the emotions of life, this one is pretty bleak cover to cover. If all is stable and calm in your world and you read it from a place of peace and emotional homeostasis, or you need a catalyst for a bawl fest, go for it. I am so exhausted and bummed out from reading this and I am having a hard time getting out of the plot this weekend. Her story is raw and honest, told through the innocence of a girl coming of age in the tumultuous sixties. The story flows in an often unpredictable way and leaves the reader wanting more and I am so glad I read this book and I can not wait to recommend it to others. This is a spectacular epic, a love for Alaska shines through the twisting, turning story of a small family who love and hurt each other and we see the horror of war in it is after effects and the glimpse of life in the 1970. Our heroine is a child who moves so often she never fits in and her father is left property in Alaska by his army friend who did not make it back. When the story moves to Alaska everything comes vividly alive, the scenery, the characters and the story. However, as much as I felt for the characters, this is the first book of hers in so long that has not made me cry. I could not put this book down until Leni found a clean bed, clean sheets, new clothes, a warm room, a hot bath, money, and some privacy. Not my genre by a long shot, but I read it in one day and I was captivated and do not look for me visiting Alaska. The descriptions of the ocean, bays, river, sea life, salmon fishing, hunting, severe winter, mountains, northern lights, rain, mud, snow, dark days of winter, daylight in summer was all pretty amazing and the story line is also good which has been described enough in other reviews, people in town. The author neglected to fully explain why a beautiful woman would stay with someone who backhanded and hurt her her on a regular basis. That said, this was not grief for the sake of grief, or a tale of sadness that you feel is being dumped on you. The storytelling is so impeccable that you feel the anxiety of the characters and go on the journey with them all the way to the end. The author came home to his wife and daughter, a fractured man and this is a love story. The love of a daughter, for her mother, a love so strong that it withstands the violence Leni sees at the hands of her father to her mother. This is a love story with natural beauty and the beauty of the independent people in their seventies. Everyone here is either running from something or to something and I have been involved in the criminal justice business for thirty five years. Never have I read such an honest portrayal of a fictional family in the throes of domestic violence. 