Very little payoff for having to put up with the massive amount of horrible people doing horrible things. I can see the analogies to slavery, but that is not what I was looking for in a science fiction or fantasy book. The plot was not sufficiently interesting, more of a slice of life style than any real conflict, climax, resolution, to make me want to wade through the child rape or violence, and the writing style was confusing and never came together for me. The twist of how the different story arcs would come together was predictable and tiresome that it took so long to materialize. I will not read any of her other books and I am mystified how this won a Hugo. I thought it was average at best and the book started brutally slowly. Fifty pages in, I was ready to dump it but I kept telling myself that this was a Hugo award winner, it had to get better. And then the killer was the ending that was nor and this is not a complete story. It is a cliffhanger for the books to follow and given the pace of the first book, I am guessing that there will not be a real story until the third book. I am not willing to commit the time to the second book just to find out I need to wait until the third before any mysteries are unraveled. This was my first and will be my last book by this author. I know this book received high praise on so many levels, and I am certain that it is deserving of the award and recognition it got. I will take the blame and maybe I am not clever enough or something. But a book that leaves me scratching my head more than it pulls me in is one I am not going to spend previous hours on, regardless of the endless praise it got. It is hard to know who is more responsible for the bad writing here, including the writer, who has no style whatsoever, and who seems to often be making stuff up as she goes along, with no planning, or the editors, who allowed terrible first draft level prose get all the way into print. The author badly needs to tether her strong imagination to some sturdy craft. The storytelling device to identify reader as the main character at one point and telling the story in second person was brilliant and I had not encountered that before. Splitting of the chronological sections felt artificial, engaging and entertaining at first, but disappointing when the stories converged. Island life being idyllic felt a bit overdone and Rage at Jija for murder of Uche seemed less believable once what happened to Conu was described. And then, not really good at all, she uses a lot of out of vocabulary, but that does not make it good. The book starts off with a bizarre narrative speaking directly to the reader, breaking the fourth wall instantly, but still managing to be utterly confusing. There is two other main characters, and they are written in a more normal the third person perspective. The epileptic jumping of the author around in the timeline of the story without explanation of the jump makes for a lot head scratching. Another silly gimmick is the frequent name changes of the primary character. 