I only recently read fifty shades, and then read this and had to reread fifty shades to look at the two books together and I have not seen the movie. While this book does not give much new material to the plot of fifty shades, it does provide insight into the mental state and the development of Christian Grey, letting the reader see what is happening in his mind. I did read a lot of the reviews, good and the bad ones and I wanted to go into this read knowing as much as possible. Essentially he is living in the dark, while he was able to pull himself out of his trauma. When he was younger, he really was going through the motions. It was not until his encounter with Ana that he was able to see specks of light. She really did turn is world upside down. While in this book at first I did not like the author too much because she did bring some form of emotion to Christian, when you see it from his point of view and a scene he recalls with her in their early years, I really understood better why Ana felt the way she did towards her from the beginning. Now keep in mind this is the first book in this series, so you can not fast forward all your trilogy knowledge in this read. I very much enjoyed the time in between the belt incident, her leaving and just before they meet up to attend gallery event of Jose. I am very, very much looking forward to FSDarker and FSFreed in as they were my favorites of this story. Thank you EL James for giving us more insight into the mind of Christian Grey. Totally loved this and I listened to the audio book of Grey, and the narrator is perfect for Christian Grey. He has a wonderful tone to his voice, and he really drew you into the story. It is refreshing, funny and moving by turns to see his growth, and especially how he handles when Ana walks out and his subsequent discussion with Flynn. How it opens his eyes to his ability to do more, be more for Ana. It was refreshing and moving to see a deeply, emotionally flawed character grow and fall in love. The strength of character of Ana grows and changes him for the better. She may have been inexperienced, but her strength of character grows and highlights how these two move toward each other in a moving dance as they fall in love. This writer is a big fan of the Fifty Shades of Grey series. I was instantly excited when I heard that there was going to be another book in the series. In my opinion, this book did not disappoint. Christian Grey is a complex man. He is a self made Billionaire who was born in abject poverty. He is a man who exercised control in all things, but begins to give up those rules and controls when he meets Anastasia Steele. I personally like this book better than Fifty Shades of Grey. Although the story is overall the same, the perspective of Christian is very interesting. It becomes clear all the changes that he tries to make to keep Anastasia in his life. It also gives insight into how a child that was so horribly neglected and abused, would try to make stringent rules and always be in control in order to protect himself. I found this book very enjoyable and I sincerely hope that there will be more books in the series. Hopefully a book that starts up where Fifty Shades Freed ended someday. Or hind in fear of being recognized because I was sitting in a theater watching a flipping porno because that is basically what it is. I am sorry but she is no Anna and he sure is no Christian. I am sorry, I find myself wanting to grab James, shake her and ask why did you let them do this to your amazing story. Now I can not even read this without picturing the actors and I actually feel sick. God I hope it is better, so my advice, read the books but never watch the movie, ever. I took forever to finally read this book because I knew a part of me would be sad to finish it. I could have finished it in one sitting but I wanted to savor it and cherish getting to be inside the head of Christian. I personally really enjoyed being in his head, it was sometimes a little more intense being on his side of things, and I loved that. 