Long the king of fantasy fiction for adults, Gaiman has turned his talented attention to younger audiences lately. In The Graveyard Book, he cements his greatness in fiction once and for all. Gaiman spins the tale of Nobody Owens, a child who escaped the mysterious murder of his birth family and is taken in by none other than the ghosts at the local graveyard. Under the watchful eye of his new, ghostly parents and an otherworldly guardian named Silas, tiny Bod as he comes to be known, makes the land within the graveyard his own. But as he grows, questions arise that why is not Bod allowed to leave the graveyard. Will the one human girl he met as a small child ever return to visit. Who or what lives deep within the bowels of darkest, most forbidding hillside at the edge of the graveyard. The complicated answers to all of this and much more Gaiman weaves together into a beautiful, terrifying blanket. And in so doing, he shows his readers that it is only the most porous and important of curtains that separates life and death, that magic still exists, and that love cannot be limited by any boundaries, no matter how impenetrable they may seem. Truly, a book for all ages, an instant classic. This is the story of Nobody Owens and his guardians and friends in a graveyard. They became his protectors and family when he was a toddler and a Man Jack did away with his family, shortly before coming after him to do the same. His interactions with beings from both worlds are witty, humorous, moving, and at times nerve wracking or dangerous. Yet always, these qualities underscore deeper truths about the human. And not so human, condition. This is one of finest works of Neil Gaiman for grade school level kids and up including adults. He remains one of my favorite tellers of Other Worldly tales, highly recommended. Hard to imagine someone not enjoying this book, whether an adult or middle grade reader or listener. I bought the audible version, which I highly recommend and it is read by the author and it turns out Neil Gaiman could have had a second career as a voice actor. In short, I loved it, recommend it, and will probably buy the print version to go with the audio. This is the second Neil Gaiman audio book I listened to and I absolutely loved it. The full cast production was so much more fun than one narrator and brought the story to life, so to speak. He is secreted away in a graveyard, raised and protected by the ghosts of the dead. The story kept me entertained and wanting more and I was sorry when it ended and The eight half hour narration just was not long enough and I love Neil Gaiman. Murder is a driving plot line throughout. The book is worth a read, it is beautifully written and nobody except Owens will make his way into your heart. This book is a must read and I was extremely sad to finish this spectacular book. I read this in my sixth grade class and this is now my model for my creative writing. The vivid words make me feel like I am right there with Bod, the protagonist. Because of the complex and well described characters, you truly can understand the emotions they feel. 