Having read some Heinlein works prior and a being fan of the movie, I came in with high expectations. Of course, I was not expecting the movie version and I knew the film was loosely based, but I was expecting more action sequences and battles. Not a bad science fiction read, but the focus is on the military lifestyle and its structure such as how it works, how it fits into society rather than a man versus bug adventure story. Thought provoking, but more politics and philosophy than epic battles with giant insects. I enjoyed reading this book, I enjoyed the setting and the writing. The only reason why this gets three stars though is I felt like now and then I was getting kicked in the face with a very bizarre and not particularly agreeable political statement as to how the world should be run and what makes an honorable person. Even in the end, the dishonorable individual does the valiant thing by enlisting like his good son. And the corporal punishment system the world runs on, and the author subsequently argues for is bizarre and relatively stone age compared to the futuristic setting. I have picked up another Heinlein to see if its a trend solely with this book or beyond. But still worth reading regardless of this problem. After watching the movie for years, I finally decided to read the novel that it was based on. I was expecting something more plot, more fights, just more. Instead I get a glorified manual on military life and that a soldier does not know anything important about the war he is fighting in. I am not saying it is a bad book. There is also the bit about the Skinnies, an alien race not shown in the movie, that is helping the bugs and suddenly they are not. Perhaps I am in the wrong demographic to be reading this book. I just did not like it as well as I thought I would. I am just saying do not expect too much if you are looking for fast paced action and epic battles. While I enjoyed the read, it is not my favorite from Heinlein. What I did find interesting was how rich of a read it was. I was expecting a little more of a detailed account of what the movie portrayed. I was thinking that I was in for more of a story in the book. What it is, is really Heinlein musings about how the military of the future might look like and provided a character and events to unpack it. It is for this that he was so great as a writer. He thought things through to the nth degree. So it is a worthy read, if you like Heinlein, you will most likely like this, just do not expect any of the movie. Overall the book was moderately enjoyable but not what I was expecting. I was first introduced to the story from the movie so I was somewhat surprised to see the vast difference. 