I bought these for my grandchildren to learn the history of the civil rights. I grew up in Al during this time frame giving away my age and it was important to me that they understand all that happened especially more than they can get in school. They loved the books and plan to read again. We will have these to pass along to every generation. Can not recommend high enough, thank you John Lewis. What a creative way to tell Congressman John Lewis story of his time fighting for civil rights in the 1960. His perspective teaches us so much about the hard work that went into the civil rights movement. I found the pages portraying the scenes at the Edmund Pettus bridge very difficult to read. Trying to comprehend what happened to the young men and women on Bloody Sunday brought tears to my eyes. I hope that teachers utilize this series as a tool to show their students this important era of American history. I have read history books of America, but nothing as powerful as March. The history of John Lewis is a powerful message to all people of all nations that nonviolence can change the state, the country, the world. Just hope and keep faith, it will not be over night, but it will. So thanks to all of them that marched before us. Even if I did not know all those who did in glad, I know a lot of them now through this awesomely fantastic book. My thanks, remember one person, one vote. March, Book Three picks up where Book Two left off in telling the story of the invigoration of the civil rights movement in the late 1950 and 1960, as seen through the eyes and life experiences of John Lewis, the last living member of the Big Six civil rights leaders who initiated the 1963 March on Washington. The three book series does a major service in educating young Americans of all races about a critical period in the civil rights movement. March, the Book Three by John Lewis, Andrew Aydin, and artist Nate Powell is the third graphic memoir in the trilogy of John Lewis time in the 1960 Civil Rights Movement. Lewis has had a number of close calls throughout the movement, and he has lost a number of friends and colleagues to the violence. 