I do not like leaving a bad review, so this is not really a bad review and this is more a bad review to the people pitching this book to buyers as the funniest book of the year. I was looking for a funny book, because I was feeling low and needed to laugh. I bought the book because it said it was incredibly funny, and people were in bits over it, however, I realized quickly that this book, as childlike as the drawings were, and as funny as the narrative was meant to be, was a story about a woman who has had deep and serious struggles in life. The part about the dogs might be a bit amusing, but on a whole this is not funny. It addresses mental illness in a way that most people might be able to relate, or at least understand what is going on. I loved the seriousness of it, the honesty behind it, the bravery of telling that story, but it was not a funny book. I would have appreciated it a lot more if all of the material had been original, considering the old material is still available for free. When I tried to use it, the movements of the mouse were not being picked up. This book was full of a lot of old material but they were some of her best old stories. She left out the fish story which disappointed me but the God of Cake kind of made up for it. This book is much more introspective for Allie as she examines herself, her flaws, and her battle with depression. For that purpose the book was very interesting to me, but I am a psychology major. If you are expecting the Allie Brosh that took the internet by storm this book is not it, but if you can push yourself through it you will see that Allie is now focused on taking herself by storm. I picked this up because I saw near universal 5 star reviews for this book on pretty much every site ever. So, it is kind of unfair for me to give this three stars, because that suggests that it is not a good book, which it is. As I read more, the subject matter became more serious, though still always approached with humor. I thought it was very insightful and eye opening as far as explaining depression and it is a quick read, and worth it. 