This book can be described as Canterbury Tales set in space with monsters. Some of the tales are more interesting than others. About half way through I realized I was not going to be interested enough to read the second book. Then it turns out this is a two part story that the situation the travelers are going to address is not addressed until the next book and I am not interested to find out what happens. I will order the next book in the series, however, thought there would be more of a true ending to this first book. Also, without playing spoiler, the stories of the individual travelers or seekers were somewhat uneven. Some were a lot more interesting than others, and all of the stories could have used editing for length. Thinking about it, this is more like a collection of short stories, than a true science fiction novel. After getting to the journal of the priest, I thought the world building and action would pick up. Finally landing on Hyperion was exciting and kept me reading. But after numerous entries with no real progress or interesting events, I felt like the reading became a responsibility more than enjoyment. That is when I decided to move on, after looking ahead, that is, and seeing numerous more pages of these journal entries. Maybe they gain momentum and end up not being a log of travel of this man. I am hoping to start back reading it when I need something and will try one more go at it. I have a feeling it gets good, it just took extremely too long for me. Several utterly strange stories come together in a huge mashup of science fiction concepts, loosely connected together by an overarching journey. Many of the individual stories from our characters are compelling and evocative. The Hyperion universe is weird, wonderful, and uncomfortable all at once. You will catch glimpses of other science fiction works folded neatly into the embrace of Hyperion. But no, only a very unsatisfying cliffhanger for you, my boy, now be a good lad and buy the next book. This book is a split story of one central mystery and six characters to support that mystery and the shrike is this time travailing evil anti ghost. 